Orca Sightings for July 2, 2008
============================================================

Entry 1:
Bethany Diehl and I headed out from Westport for our monthly marine mammal survey. It was a very quiet day on the outer coast with only a few sightings of harbor and dall's porpoise, and one sighting of 30 or so
pacific white-sided dolphins
about 40 miles offshore. We saw no large whales, which is a little unusual at least in comparison to the last few summers when we have often sighted humpbacks or grays at this time of year. The water for most of the survey was a strange, almost luminous shade of light green- I have never seen anything quite like it.
Erin Andrea Falcone, Cascadia Research, Olympia
*
Astrid van Ginneken, John Durban, and Holly Fernbach of the Center for Whale Research encountered
J pod
spread out traveling north between Kellett Bluff and Turn Point on Stuart Island (48째 65.00 N, 123째 23.00 W) at

4:14 p.m
.. The Center followed J pod to the shore of North Pender Island, B.C. where the whales grouped up and continued to travel north close to shore. The encounter ended at
6:06 with J pod continuing north through Swanson Channel (48째 46.047 N, 123째 18.835 W).
Great Photos at
Center for Whale Research
*
We enjoyed a very peaceful and rewarding visit with
J Pod and K Pod
as they rested their way across Oak Bay towards Discovery Island. The highlight was when the two pods came together before crossing the passageway into Haro Strait. Having more than 45 whales in such close proximity was a very special treat. We continued on to Stuart Island where we had another peaceful encounter with J Pod. The Orcas were travelling northeast, crossing Boundary Pass and entering Swanson Channel. The pod was travelling quite close to Stuart Island as they passed through the tide rips near Turn Point, then spread out over several miles when crossing Boundary Pass. We left J Pod at approximately
5 PM
in very quiet waters, with only 2 research vessels still with them, between North Pender Island and Moresby Island.
Joan Lopez, Naturalist Vancouver Whale Watch
*
At

6:00 PM
,
K-Pod and the "L12s"
(10-12 whales) were spread from Lime Kiln to False Bay on San Juan Island, heading south, but making little to no progress swimming against a strong flood tide. Some of the L12s were the furthest offshore, with Mega (L41) and others out in the middle of Haro Strait. From the Land Bank Preserve on the west side of San Juan Island, the closest whales were probably 400 yards offshore. One group of 3-4 whales included a calf, and at one point one or two of the females in the group were pushing the calf at the surface amid much splashing and tail slapping. Another group of 3 included a male (adult or nearly so) that did two spectacular breaches. It's amazing how loud of a sound it makes even at that distance! J-Pod was reportedly northbound at Pender Bluffs.
Monika Wieland, San Juan Island
*
Southern Residents
off west San Juan Island at

3:36 pm
- Many S16 callss and buzz trains and whistles on Lime Kiln hydrophone now.
Scott Veirs, Beam Reach
*
Orcas
on orca cam

1:28pm
, and on the Lime Kiln hydrophone at
1:29pm.
Ruby Keefe, Culver City, Ca
*
At

2:40 pm
we heard some orca calls from the Lime Kiln hydrophone.
Susan & Howard, Orca Network
*
We had the opportunity to meet up with members of both
J & K pods
(could have been some L's too??) returning to the San Juan Islands at approximately

11:00am
. We met up with the whales as they headed through Baynes Channel (east of Victoria). While that was exciting in an of itself, when we approached, we were greeted with line after line of resting whales, tightly grouped, intermingled and slowly making their way toward San Juan Island. We stayed with the groups for about two hours (they seemed to gather speed as they entered the Haro Straits, heading north and breaking into three separate groupings). The whales appeared to be heading North but by the time we arrived home to the west side of the Island, many of the whales seemed to have turned and headed south, we even stopped to watch at least 5 of them come well into Deadman's Bay (just south of Lime Kiln). By

6:00pm
that evening, we still had the southern residents heading south along the shores, after a day of what seems to have been unstopped milling.
Sandy Buckley, Postcards From Friday Harbor
*
K-Pod
& reports of
J-Pod
spread out between False Bay & Lime Kiln Point, heading north. Before we got to False Bay, about

2:30 pm
, they had turned southeast- the west side shuffle. And turned northwest again! The spread out, small groups were working the shoreline, positively ID'd little K-42 with her mom K-14 Lea. Most of the whales were taking long dives, while K-42 had to come up for breath more frequently. Some groups were offshore and we got a nice view of K-40 with her telltale "Raggedy" dorsal fin. Then we watched a male (too far to ID - brother K-21 Cappucino?), circle & lunge several times. Another turn to the southeast. J-Pod was quite a bit north when some members (counted 15+?) turned heading southeast along the shoreline. We watched as they tightened up into that beautiful shoulder to shoulder resting formation. It appeared that many sprouters & males were in the group as they came up & breathed in unison. Then as they joined K-Pod they became active with breaching, tail lobbing, a few cartwheels and spy hops. At about
3:45 pm, we continued north around San Juan Island, the rest of J-Pod was off in the distance heading toward North Pender Island.
Caroline Armon- Naturalist by sea & land
*
We saw the
J11s and the J14s
frolicking through the currents together just north of Lime Kiln Lighthouse and we parallelled north with them until Kellet Bluff. The rumor was that Ls were also in the area, but we only encountered J Pod animals north of the light. The J11s, which include: J11 (Blossom) and her offspring J27 (Blackberry), J31 (Tsuchi), and J39 (Mako); were the first group sighted. J31 was MIA in the beginning of the encounter and grouped up with her mom and siblings as they approached the bluff. J39 appeared in high spirits, as usual, as he breached multiple times and played games with big brother Blackberry. Blackberry was seen swimming on his back and slapping his tail and pectoral fins while Mako popped up around him. Tsuchi joined in on the play when she appeared and also gave us a nice breach. The J14s were also there, with the exception of J14's middle calf, seven year old Hy'shqa (J37). J14 (Samish) and her son J30 (Blackberry) and daughter Suttles (J40) met up with the J11s just south of Mosquito Pass and they swam together briefly before breaking off at the bluff. We also had an amazing encounter with J1. We left them moving north towards Stuart Island.
Megan Young, Naturalist, San Juan Safaris
*
We were blessed to see
J and K pods
altogether, making our sighting 48
Orcas
, one was a recent baby not named yet! It was with a Female named Leah (K14 & new calf K42). We also saw Cappucino. On the way home, we saw a
Minke
whale and on the way out earlier, we saw a
porpoise
! We left going into a silvery mist - and as it cleared around us, we found the whales all resting! In just a few moments, they started breaking up into their groups and spy hopping! Some tails were splashing, twisty turns up above the water line, dorsal fins all over the place, and even some distant vocal sounds! Blessings,
Lynda Imburgia, Whidbey Island
*
The outbound trips for most of the Steveston boats came across
Pacific White-side Dolphins
south of Active Pass in the Strait of Georgia at approximately

9:45 AM
. We located the Pacific White-sided Dolphins just north of Active Pass, still quite close to the Galiano Island shoreline. The group was very active, with several breaches observed (see photo ), lots of porpoising action, bowriding and wakesurfing. We estimated the group size to be approximately 100+ individuals, with many calves observed. As we returned across the Strait of Georgia for our afternoon trip, we located the dolphins very close to where we had left them. In 2 hours, they had stayed milling about in the same area. While they seemed a little quieter on this encounter, our passengers were thrilled to observe these beautiful animals in their natural environment. On our way back across the Strait of Georgia, we came across the dolphins once again. They were now Northeast of Active Pass, coincidentally, on the pathway from the Pass towards the Fraser River. We were once again able to witness the amazing agility and energy of these beautiful animals. We reluctantly left the dolphins at approximately 6 PM. The reluctance seemed to be mutual as the dolphins chased after our boats when we left the scene. It is such a rare event to have Pacific White-sided Dolphins in that area of the Strait of Georgia.
Joan Lopez , Naturalist, Vancouver Whale Watch

