Orca Sightings for June 26, 2011
============================================================

Entry 1:
Janice Ceridwen,
Hansville
, WA, called at

8:18 pm
to say she and her husband were watching a
humpback
in
Admiralty Inlet
, closer to the Whidbey Island side, heading slowly south, splashing and fluking. They said the flukes had horizontal stripes along both flukes, near the trailing edge. Then she sent this report: The humpback followed a pretty similar pattern to last night except no breaches and not as much tail slapping. When I called you he was about half way between Double Bluff and Maxwelton closer to Whidbey, but still towards the middle. He seemed to be feeding as he was not swimming fast at this point. We saw a great part of his back and dorsal as he surfaced and he is BIG. As it grew dark it became difficult to spot him. He was staying down for some time, and he covers great distances in such a big inlet. Then, at once I noticed him only about 200 ft off shore of the Hansville Store, north of Point No Point. He had come across, just like last night. Finally, at

9:45 pm
he seemed to dive deeper with flukes high, increased his speed and headed south. No photos, too dark. (But, my husband saw a pattern on the fluke early in the evening with the scope, which he related by phone to you.)
Janice Ceridwen, Hansville, WA
*
Saw
two dolphins
in Henderson Bay about 400 yards off the mouth of
Minter Creek
, at

5:30 pm
. I don't know what kind. They seemed to be a dark brown. They were heading leisurely to the south. They were swimming slowly and only a part of their back and dorsal fin came out of the water. My impression was they were dark brown, but they didn't come out of the water far enough to see any markings. Actually saw what I figured were the same two animals several days before heading north on Henderson Bay towards Wauna.
Kevin, Gig Harbor, WA
These could either be porpoise, or possibly the two Common Dolphins that were sighted in Puget Sound this past month - ON
*

8:32pm: Orcas
at Eagle Cove (west
San Juan Island
) now - feeding behavior. We enjoyed the company of the whales at Eagle Cove until dark, nearly 2 hours. Feeding behavior turned into playful behavior of a mama and her youngster practicing breaching over and over again! The youngster looked like a slippery little pickle squirting out of the water at first, then it caught air! Perfect little breaches...at least a dozen or more!
Lodie Laurieanne, Gilbert Budwill
*
OrcaSound & Lime Kiln hydrophon
e reports:

6:08 pm
: Lots of echolocation - hope they are catching lots of good salmon! Sure are doing alot of high pitch whistling.
Vickie Doyle, Kent, WA

5:56 pm
:Listening now--some clicking noises, too. Almost sound like dolphins.
Susan Wells Fun calls at Lime Kiln hydrophone at
5:48 pm. Susan Berta, Orca Network, Whidbey Island, WA

5:46 pm
: calls on lime kiln!
Mandy Bailey Orca calls at OrcaSound hydrophones -
4:19 pm.

5:27 pm
- orca calls at LimeKiln.
Lon Brockelhurst, Olympia, WA
Listening to fun orca calls on the OrcaSound hydrophone (NW San Juan Island, WA),

3:50 pm
!
Susan Berta, Orca Network
I am hearing vocalizations on the Orcasound hydrophone right now,

3:43
.
Melisa Pinnow
*
We found a mix of
J's and K's with L87
just north of East point in the
Strait of Georgia
. They were very active, lots of spyhops and breaches and we got to see J2 playing with her great granddaughter J37. The old girl still has lots of life in her! she was keeping up with J37 with breaches, tail slaps and lots more.
Gary Sutton, Wild Whales Vancouver
*
As we reached the west side of
San Juan Island
north of Lime Kiln, we saw what we were looking for,
killer whales
! Lots of them! The pod was spread out so we didn't know which direction to look; whales were breaching to our right, some were lob tailing to our left. They were all being super playful, it was quite a view!
Kristen, Naturalist, San Juan Safaris
*
Near Monarch Head on
Saturna Island
, slowly heading towards Eastpoint we were lucky enough to find the lead whales further north than anyone thought, and it turned out to be the
K13s! K25
and his large dorsal fin were easy to spot, and as we sat quietly with engines off, Scoter slowly moved through the glassy water about 200 yards away. Suddenly he made a quick turn and we knew what he'd found--FISH! There must have been more than one as we saw tons of bait fish boiling to the surface and could only surmise a small school of salmon were in the area too. And then K25 showed his prowess by literally exploding to the surface--flinging a HUGE salmon into the air! In 15 years of being on the water, this was only my 3rd or 4th time to see this, and my first to get a picture of it! Soon other whales were moving through the same area, looking for more fish. Lots of surface percussive behaviors, including spyhops, tail lobs, and as a pair of massive tankers passed by, several breaches and another rarely witnessed phenomenon---whales surfing the huge stern wake of the vessels!! It was all smiles as we headed back to the harbor, and it ranks as one of my best days of the year out on the boat.
John Boyd (JB), SSAMN Marine Naturalist, Western Explorer
*
Another beautiful evening with
J pod
last night, stunning sunset and only us on the water. Plenty of activity going on, lots of spyhops! J28 was particularly fun to watch :)
Mercedes Powell

4:30 pm
: 8 of the
two groups of Transient Orca including T137
were still headed North West tight along the Vancouver Island Shoreline by Elk Bay, just above
Campbell River
. Also, at
9:30 am a group of 6 Orca by Cape Mudge including one large male. IDs included T137 and T137A.
Garry,Aboriginal Journeys

11:30 am:
a second group of around 6 Orca were by Copper Bluffs headed NorthWest.
Jack, Campbell River Whale Watching
9 am
: Broken radio transmission of Orca spotted by the Light - Campbell River direction.

8:45 am
Around 6 Orca were passing Pebble Beach, south of Powell River with lots of breaching, splashing, lying on their backs doing inverted tail slaps and generally socializing. Two large males and a couple of calves.
Bill T.
A pod of
Orca
was seen at Myrtle rocks a
8:30 am Sunday heading south. There was a mother and a baby and about three others. They gave a beautiful display of tail slapping and flipper flapping.
Bob
5 to 6 whales went by Grief Point around

7:30 this morning
heading south at a leisurely pace. Lots of breaching and tail slapping by one larger individual.
Heather Dickson, Grief Point
Sighting at 730 at grief point- 5 orcas.
michael
Above Transient reports from: Susan MacKay, Whales and Dolphins of BC,
Powell River, BC
*
Orca Network received a call from David Smith, a WA state fish-checker. He had reports from boats who had sighted orcas, about 10 miles north of LaPush: 1 big male
orca
almost jumped into their boat.
*
Orca Network received a call from Tony McGinnis, reporting
~6 orcas
in
Malaspina Strait, BC
, near Myrtle Pt. at
9 am
this morning, heading east. The pod included some adult males and calves. At this time we aren't sure whether these were Transients or Residents - did anyone else see them or get photos?
*

1:30 pm
: There are (I think)
J's
going by now too. Could be the ones who never showed up this morning...headed north. (started hearing calls at Lime Kiln at
1:37 pm!)
Sandy Buckley, San Juan Island, WA
*
J and K Pod
already sighted this
morning
!!!
Ocean EcoVentures Whale Watching - Cowichan Bay
*
We had an amazing pass of members of
J Pod
at the
[Lime Kiln] lighthouse
this morning, there may have been others too - slow rolling pass with lots of the whales in close to the shoreline. I'm guessing it was around

6:30
? Beautiful~ flat water, great light - a perfect start to the day.
Sandy Buckley, San Juan Island, WA
*
Scott Veirs of Beam Reach called at

1:27 pm
from the Gato Verde, 5 kms SW of
Smith Island
, reporting they were seeing between
four and a dozen Minkes
today, spread out between Partridge Bank and Hein Bank, lunge-feeding on the many (~20) large herring balls in the area. Harbor seals were seen hanging around and feeding on the scraps left by the Minkes, as well as many birds. Wow - a Minke Superpod!

