Orca Sightings for June 27, 2016
============================================================

Entry 1:
...San Juans - On our evening trip at approx

6:30pm
we caught up with
a big group of transient orcas coming south from White Rock. We saw T36As, T75Bs, T123's, and T124C.
We observed lots of milling/hunting behavior
between Flattop Island, the Cactus Islands, and Spieden Island
. At one point two of the orcas began high speed chasing after something - presumably a harbor porpoise. We also saw a couple distant orcas between Flattop and Jones Island, but didn't get a chance to see who they were. T124C was mostly separate from the group. The others ended up heading south down San Juan Channel and were
aiming at Yellow Island at
9:30pm
when we left them. -Barbara Bender/David Howitt
*
Nothing like an unexpected killer whale encounter to decompress after a long day....nice group of
transients up near Spieden Island this evening
. -Monika Wieland
*

7:50 p.m.
- Puget Sound - northern group whales decided they didn't like east side of Whidbey. Currently
westbound south of Possession Point
. -Rachel Haight
*

5:45 p.m. - T049C breaching over and over and over off of Hat Island this evening. they just killed something of of Hat Island
. -Janine Harles
*

5:15 p.m. - They are just north of the ferry lanes. Between Whidbey island and Gedney island
. -Danielle Pennignton
*

4:57 p.m. -
group crossing
Mukilteo ferry lanes mid channel. Northbound
, looks like they're headed for Sandy Point.

3:04 p.m. - northbound passing the Edmonds ferry terminal
now.

2:16 p.m. - off Edmonds
circling, Been here nearly 30 minute circling. Likely on a kill.

1:50 p.m. - group east of mid channel northbound passing Kayu Kayu Ac Park
, Richmond Beach in Shoreline. -Rachel Haight
*

3:00 p.m. - Spotted orca (5-6, including 1 male) off Edmonds
today from beach , they seemed to be feeding. -Mark Cooper
*
T036B (Left) and others with T049C off of Edmonds Marina Beach appx.
2:45
today. -Janine Harles,

Entry 2:
*
Between

12:30 and 2 p.m.
I read elsewhere someone guessed there were two babies; that is consistent with what I saw while I rowed northwest
between Shilshole and Kingston
, several Orca breached to the west and east of me on a diagonal between Jefferson Head and Richmond Beach. One had a large dorsal fin, here were a few smaller ones. -Jack Edson Whishner
*

12:45 p.m. - Just saw 3-5 orcas
traveling quickly northbound let the Meadow Point green can! (Golden Gardens park, north Seattle). -Toby Black
*

12:08 p.m. - Group of four orcas
just passing Fay Bainbridge park, northbound. -Sue Surowiec Larkin
*

12:06 p.m. - they are heading North!! Just off West Point lighthouse
.

11:56 a.m. - now again northerly heading offshore towards West Point - maybe 6 or 7
.

11:52 a.m. - until a few minutes ago northerly lead male between Elliott bay and West Point
. Now the male has turned back south east more towards Elliott bay

11:33 a.m. - Got a group of Orcas mid channel due west of Seatlle
, one male close by and others further east towards Alki. -Stu Davidson
*
Approx.
10:30am
I thanks Leslie for the phone call that there were
Orca seen from the Bainbridge Island I ferry
. Approx 11am, I started watching from Rockaway Beach, Bainbridge Island with Sue,
a group of Orca, Seattle side
, with research boat and Chilkat. Then, we spotted
another group, BI side, just north of Eagle Harbor
. Headed north to watch them from Rolling Bay (4 - one male) booking north at a very steady pace. Watched for about 30 min, until about
noon
. Then, decided to go to Bella Luna (Suquamish). As we were eating lunch and watching for them, they were spotted again heading north about mid-channel, almost to Kingston/Edmonds. Thought they were gone, nope! They turned west and headed right for us! We watched as
they entered Agate Pass and headed to the bridge.
We packed up our lunch and headed back to BI. Goal was to get in our kayaks at Manzanita Bay and head out into the pass. Ended up just me and I paddled out to the middle so that I could see Agate Pass bridge and watch for them to enter. (Now approx

1:30pm
) As I got about 1/2 mile from shore, I heard an unmistakable WHALE BLOW FROM BEHIND ME!!! As I quickly turned around, shockingly I found
a HUMPBACK
! It was about 300 yards behind me. Took a couple of breaths and then a deep dive, heading west. I continued to paddle toward the middle of the channel and then met Susan Marie Andersson at Battle Point in search of the ORCA, but only saw the
Humpback surface 3 more times
and then disappear. Never saw any signs of the ORCA west of the bridge. Gorgeous day on the water!!! Sadly I have no photos. -Kimberly Sylvester-Malzahn
*

9:58 -
WS Ferries reports
4-6 orcas milling off Tyee
. (near Blakely Rock)
*

9:50 -
WS ferries reports
2 orcas heading south from Bainbridge Is. toward Vashon Isl
. And another message from someone on that ferry, reporting
3 orcas outside of Eagle Harbor at 10 am
, jumping and hunting, their antics being enjoyed by folks on the ferry.
*

9:24 a.m. -
Watching through binoculars from Alki beach. Several
off of Bainbridge
, can only see one male from this distance. Direction unclear. Victoria Clipper is just north of the pod. -Jill Hadji
*

9:15 -
Kayla Black called in a sighting of
orcas near the Bainbridge/Seattle ferry lane
, heading toward Restoration Point.
*

9:00 a.m. - Blakely rock
, they are feeding and playing there for last 15 min. -Martina Jambrichova
*

7:45 a.m. -
There's a
large pod of orcas just north of Golden Gardens
slowly heading south (on this side of the sound). -Kelly Green
*

6:37 a.m. - pod of at least 6 orcas southbound
, as seen from
Richmond beach in shoreline
. Definitely on this side and seem to be foraging while heading south. -Michellle Goll
*

7:10 p.m. - Puget Sound - T125A & T128 - 2-3 orcas heading north through Colvos Passage
. -Adrienne Domingus
*

5:45 p.m. -
Just wanted to say "thank you" to Karlen Pitz for your post about the
pod at Pt Defiance
. You are personally responsible for my family seeing their very first orca! We've been trying for a couple weeks now - we got out of the house within 1 min of your post and were able to watch them from Soundview Drive in Gig harbor swim from the tip of Point Defiance across towards Vashon/Sunrise...to see them straight out in front of us. They were
more on the Vashon side and were out of sight at Sandfort Point within 10 minutes
- but still utterly amazing! There were a lot of people on Sunrise beach that didnt notice anything until we showed up. We are responsible for showing four other people their first Orca! LOL! Anyway - Thanks so much for the timely post. My three pictures stink we got great looks with the binos! :-) Thank you again! -Mark Schurer
*

5:33 p.m. - they are in Dalco Passage
trending towards
Colvos and Sunrise Beach
.

5:17 p.m. -
We just watched them make
a kill in the little Harbor Pt. Defiance lighthouse
. -Melissa Burke
*

5:32 p.m. - from the old ferry landing in Gig Harbor as they entered Colvos passage
. -Jill Clogston
*

5:15 p.m. - Saw two orca off point defiance
. Both came close to our boat. Close enough to see a notch on a fin. -Mike Crowley
*

4:52 p.m. - Milling at the tip of Point Defiance
. -Karlen Gieche Pitz
*

4:54 p.m. - T125A and T128 off Pt. Defiance Boat House from 2nd viewpoint on 5 mile drive
, they are milling, possibly hunting right out in the middle of the channel where Colvos/Narrows meet. -Melissa Burke
*
Orca's from Owen's Beach
today. Looks blurry because of the boat exhaust, but it was an amazing experience. Even got to see them hunting and catching a seal off Point Defiance. -JJ Davern
*

3:30 p.m. - They are in the Port of Tacoma!
-Patricia Reasan
*

3:18 p.m. - 2 orcas - male passing buoy at Point Ruston
! -Cathy Baker
*

3:10 p.m. - Rounded the lighthouse
and gave everyone a great experience, especially the three girls on paddleboards who screamed their heads off! Headed for Ruston and Commencement Bay!

2:49 p.m. - off Browns Point lighthouse
heading into Commencement Bay.

2:34 p.m. - I have the Two Bulls
, passing Dash Point proper, couple hundred yards off shore southbound.

12:50 p.m. - The 2 bulls have passed the Des Moines marina
and are slowly heading south, very close to shore. -Durand Dace
*
Returning to
Foss Marina (approx.
3:00 pm)
from leisurely sailing in
Commencement Bay
& we spotted an Orcas whale surfacing. Appears to be only one, possibly the same one on the starboard side originally, then port side...Just surfacing & down again. -Denise Mitchell
*

11:00 a.m. - two large Bulls very close to shore in Dilworth
, Vashon Island headed south. Wow they are big! -Aimee Demarest
*

10:12 a.m. -
Just saw
two bulls pass Dolphin Point heading south
. -Larry Kirchner
*

10:00 a.m. -
Just seen them heading south from just south of
Dolphin Point on Vashon Island
. About halfway between here and the mainland. All surfaced once then a long dive until abeam Glenacres on Vashon. -Andrew Hollingsworth
*

8:30 a.m. - Something is in the water by the Narrows Bridge
, on the north side of the bridge possibly traveling south I saw some fins but I was driving and needed to keep my eyes on the road. It had to be whales if I could see it from that far up. -Beverly Varela
*

6:25 -
6:45 p.m. - San Juan Islands - From middle Land Bank/West Side Preserve watched a Humpback whale
circling and blowing out from Lime Kiln State Park, San Juan Island. First aiming towards the park with no particular N/S direction, but eventually headed further offshore in a northwesterly direction. Shallow surfaces and did not see any soundings while visible from our vantage point. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

8:30 p.m. - Puget Sound - Humpback siting one fourth mile south of Battle Point (west Bainbridge Island)
heading north in mid channel. -Nancy Henderson Olson
*

6:26 p.m. - Humpback spotted going north in Port Orchard between Bremerton and Bainbridge
... near Illahee State Park. She surfaced three times that we saw, then she showed her fluke and went deep. Here's the location where we saw the whale: 47.595896,-122.583414. It was a blessing to see it. Looking forward and hoping to see orcas here someday. -Brian Johnson
*

1:30 p.m. - Humpback in Port Orchard Channel
. Surface blow followed by long dive off Battle Point then vanished! (later from Susan: 4 separate reports this afternoon and this evening to Kitsap Orca Watch of a humpback whale in Port Orchard Channel. Sounds like this animal was going back and forth in the channel between
13:30 and
20:40 off west side of Bainbridge Island. Whale was seen breaching and deep diving. No photos!) -Susan Marie Andersson
*

12:30 p.m. - Humpback
sighting near
Agate Passage
. Amazed to have two sightings, presumably of the same individual, first as it traveled North towards the bridge, and then a few minutes later as it went back South again. Alerted each time by the sound of it exhaling immediately offshore, maybe 400-500 feet from our house. Not quick enough with the camera to get a picture of anything but the rings left behind, but very clear view of the dorsal fin shape and overall impression of size point unambiguously to humpback. Still feeling amazed nearly a day later! -Andrew Lister
*

11:53 a.m. - Humpback in Liberty Bay just outside of Poulsbo
. The Whale surfaced many times right in front of us. We were able to get some video of the last time we saw it come up. -James Keblas
*

11:00 a.m. - Lone humpback whale spotted in Keyport Lagoon in Liberty Bay
, Puget Sound, WA. Foraging, diving for 5 minutes at a time. 47°42'03.2"N 122°36'33.4"W. -Daen Grebner
*

5:50 - Common Dolphins are still in South Sound
. They just headed north
out of Eld Inlet (Olympia)
- cresting just below the chop. Very sneaky and moving fast. Currently on the south side of Squaxin Island milling in a large circle and what appears to be feeding. They are also 'flying' high out of the water every once in awhile to show us where they are. -Kim Merriman

