Orca Sightings for April 7, 2019
============================================================

Entry 1:
SOUTHERN RESIDENTS - Sun Apr 7 - ...Long dives, changing directions, and brief no-saddle appearances at the surface were the pattern of the day for the whales for the next hour and a half - uneventful, except that a group that we found included
J17, J44, J46, and J53
, that I had hoped to see.
J17 has improved and showed little sign of the "peanut-head" condition
that had us very worried during an encounter with her on New Year's Eve. At
1538, J42
appeared in the vicinity of this group, and
gradually more whales began to show up spread out and travelling very slowly up the Inlet toward Double Bluff. By 1608, most of J pod was in an area of about six square miles in the middle of Admiralty Inlet
, with many whales at the southerly end of the assemblage engaging in social contact and occasionally (and lazily) lobtailing as they moved gradually up the Inlet. A half a mile or so up the Inlet a few whales were also lazily lobtailing at the surface as they gradually moved down the Inlet. The assemblage gradually coalesced and then headed back down the Inlet toward the Possession Bar....Full report and images at Center for Whale Research Encounter 25.
*

Entry 2:
20:28 - Orca. At least five passing Mukilteo
a good ways out, heading East-Northeast towards Saratoga Passage... Looking North and 3 stories up (I'm on the Mukilteo side, so the contrast was pretty favorable. ). Got a little bit of light still and contrast against the water from here. Just about out of it now. -Derek Hanson
*

20:02 - (J pod)
in travel mode now.
Heading north on the east side of whidbey
.

19:54 - They (J pod)
are all grouped together heading east north east. It's so calm you can here every blow.

19:49 - viewing from Possession Point. They (J pod) are south of whidbey north of the Edmonds ferry
. Lots of surface activity. -Danielle Pennington
*

19:16 -
Quite a few milling about feeding just
south of possession point
. -Mike Ferdinandi
*

17:43 - Orcas. Between scatchet head and possession point.
Closer to whidbey side, leaders trending south

17:32 - spotted orcas from pilot point
looking north. Halfway
between Kitsap and whidbey, heading east
. -Austin Iles
*

16:51 -
Looks like they definitely flipped. South bound,
Kitsap side of Mid channel
right off Point No Point near yellow buoy. Still foraging behavior. -Susan Marie Andersson
*

16:50 - Orca. They headed south
, out of view from
Double Bluff
. -Anya Vahlolo
*

16:40 -
since my last post here they have not moved any further north ...

16:05 -
With Rachel hiked out
southend Mutiny Bay
...orcas spread across with some closer to Whidbey about i mile south of the northend of Double Bluff. Still heading north...Marilyn Armbruster
*

16:30 -
Aboard Glacier Spirit, we caught up with
about 10 out from Useless Bay
, just as they turned south. Off Useless Bay inland Puget Sound....Onyx, Cookie for sure...foraging and we had a hydrophone!!!! Yeah!!! -Bonnie Gretz
*
J47 Notch
is growing up too. (Taken from IA4
@
15:38 in Puget Sound

Entry 3:
*

15:45 -
So, looks like several (6?)woke up and are now off
Double Bluff
foraging? Lots of splashing and breaching. May be the same group inteported at
3:25. Looks like they may have turned around?

15:25 - 5-6 orcas (including 2 males) grouped up between Useless Bay and Point No Point
and lazily continued north passed the lighthouse and into Admiralty. So nice to see J pod on this beautiful, breezy spring day. -Susan Marie Andersson
*

15:20 - Orca. Between Double Bluff and Point No Point
. Just off shore of Point No Point. -Anya Vahlolo
*

15:10 - Point No Point / Hansville
folk - 2 males & 2 mid-sized(one fairly small), spread out / diving more towards Whidbey side. Binoculars - 1 male towards
Double bluff
. 1 bigger male (of the two) towards
Possession Point
. 2 mid sized orcas in front of Maxwelton. Males spread out / 2 mid-sized diving together. And Mid-sized breached a few times - hopefully the pod's all finding/feasting on Chinnok! -Andrew Muehling
*
What a great day - on our annual Sound Water Stewards' fundraiser cruise to see
gray whales - we saw members of J-pod too
! So humbling to see these endangered whales - very spread out - foraging for salmon. They were
south west of Possession Point
, foraging, northbound, then southbound. All photos zoomed and heavily cropped. Thanks to Melisa Pinnow for the ID's.
J39 Mako
swimming around Puget Sound SW of Possession Point looking for salmon with the rest of his family and other J pod members. -Photo by Jill Hein, Apr 7, 2019
(
Id by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*

14:37 - at Double Bluff
. Just spotted one orca far across the channel. From my view point, the orca was headed west. The Space Needle was in the background. -Becky Livingston
*

14:28 - J pod
. Viewing from
Point no Point at least two off Useless Bay
including large male. Mid channel and northbound. -Susan Marie Andersson
*

14:27 - J pod
. Lots of whales passing by Island Adventures boat near
Scatchet Head
, steadily headed out Admiralty it appears. -Steve Smith
*

14:13 - J pod
. Seeing multiple whales making directional changes by
Eglon closer to the Kitsap side
...they seemed to be moving north (toward Admiralty). -Danielle Pennington
*

13:20 -
Just saw some spouts a few minutes ago looking towards
Hansville
from Haines Wharf heading north. -Em Ily
*

13:15 - Js
were still extremely widely spread
between N Edmonds, South Whidbey, and Kitsap
. All actively foraging mostly in singles, with some pairs, mom and youngster etc. They are foraging amongst the dozens of fishing boats apparently catching Chinook salmon ( Blackmouth). We witnessed some breaches, tail lobs, etc but mostly many directional changes while foraging (and hopefully consuming) out in the wide expanse. J pod going in all directions! A couple of the most northerly females looked to be heading NW bound with more intention. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*
The day started 3 minutes off the dock, surrounded by members of
J Pod
, Southern Resident Orcas! We got a good look at
J26 Mike, J16 Slick and J42 Echo
as they went by us...We the moved on to
SE Gedney Island where we saw 3 gray whales #49 Patch, #383 and #531
! Talk about close passes, these guys came right over to us more than once! At one point, #383 fluked just feet off of the bow!! (No, I did not get that shot...)...As we headed back to Edmonds we stopped at the Possession Buoy to see the Steller Sea Lions, while we were doing that I saw a blow in the distance...it was
gray whale #53 Little Patch
!! Within minutes of leaving him we were again distantly surrounded by
J Pod
which was busy foraging,
spread out across the channel from Edmonds to Eglon
...we got some good looks at J31, the rest were very far away, but we sat for awhile with the engines off just taking it all in..thank you Captain Brian McGinn for a GREAT day!! All photos zoomed and cropped for details! All Whale Watch guidelines followed. On the way back to port
J16 Slick
was seen again still foraging out
from Edmonds and south Possession Point.
-Janine Harles
*
~

13:00 -
we were aboard the Chilkat and surrounded by
J pod
(ID'd by crew as
J16 & J36 & others
). Probably 15-20 whales total. Hopefully, all of J pod swimming, hunting together. Trending north. Spread across the entire channel from
south of Point No Point (approx Eglon) to South tip of Whidbey
. Saw one breach, tail slaps & general foraging. Traveling. Visible along Kitsap shore across to Useless Bay. Lots of fishing boats in the same area. Commendable info and respectful viewing from Puget Sound Express Captain, Trevor & 1st mate/Naturalist Wendi. Cut engines and dropped the hydrophone but they were too far away. Nice day on the water and for shoreside viewing. Guessing they may be visible from Port Townsend & Fort Warden Park soon (

3:30-4pm). Happy watching and wish this family well..Kimberly Sylvester
*
11:3 - J pod.
Two males in this trailing group, approaching
Edmonds
ferry dock. -Kate Stovel
*

11:30 -
More approaching
Edmonds
pier from the south - incl
J22s and J27
. After all these years, it was my first time seeing Southern Residents in Puget Sound today! I saw about
8 members of J-Pod off the Edmonds
pier (they were all there, just very spread). On one hand it's surprising it's taken so long, but on the other hand, I don't usually like to leave San Juan Island very often. -Monika Wieland Shields
*

11:24 -
We just saw one lone male going
North of the ferry lanes Kingston
side...Two females just past the diving park boundary in Edmonds in close as viewed from Sunset (Ave, north of Edmonds ferry). -Kendall Holmes Berry
*

10:56 - J pod
. Several still at
Pt Wells
. -John SLomicki
*

11:20 - J pod.
Group of at least 4 spread out with 2 males on Kitsap side. Well past the ferry. At this time trending to PNP/Admiralty

10:50 - J pod.
Seeing spread out from
Edmonds
marina south to tank farm. Mid channel, some foraging NB. -Sara Frey
*

10:50 - J pod
is spread out off
Edmonds
with
J16s
closest to Edmonds shore. Others spread wide across channel. Still active foraging, directional changes with slow trend north. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

10:45 -

11:20 - J pod
. They were too far out from
Apple Tree Pt
for good pics but we watched 2 pairs cruising steadily N/NW midchannel from
S of Edmonds towards Possession Pt
, ending w/ sightline approaching Doublebluff, at least two males. -Photo by Donna Green Van Renselaar, Apr 7, 2019
*
Another double-header on Saratoga today! This time with
J Pod
of the Southern Resident Killer Whales!! Most of our closer looks were at the
J16 matriline
which includes
J16 Slick, her adult son J26 Mike
, and her two daughters (not pictured). These endangered orcas were actively feeding on spring Blackmouth (Chinook/King salmon) just off of Edmonds for much of the morning and into the afternoon. We also encountered 4 Gray Whales in Possession Sound. We got great close looks at
#49 Patch, #383, and #531 SE of Gedney Island and then #53 Little Patch
near some Steller Sea Lions on the
Possession Point
buoy. J16 Slick made one more appearance along with several other members of J Pod off in the distance before we returned to the dock. J26 Mike off Edmonds, foraging for salmon with the rest of his family & pod. -Justine Buckmaster, Puget Sound Express
*

10:45 -
there are 2 small whales mid channel heading towards fishing pier in
Edmonds
. -Brittany Mason
*

10:45 - Orcas, just south of Edmond pier!
-Matthew Shea
*

10:30 - Orca. J27 Blackberry
is a lovely presence in Puget Sound.
J22 Oreo
. Saw 2 circling just south of Point Wells and one was driving the prey towards them. -Back of camera photos by Thomas Blair, Apr 7, 2019
(
IDs by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*

10:30 -
Currently watching
2 orcas off Point Wells
, Richmond Beach, slowly heading north. -Joni Barnes Pollino
*

10:15 - Orca
. Just south of
Point Wells
heading towards shore- scattered.
Js
. -Jason Mihok
*

10:06 - Orca
. They are spread out approaching a line from
Pt Wells to Kingston
. Still north bound. -John Slomnicki
*
~

09:45 -
Saw a large dorsal fin crest near the yellow bouy mid channel, from the
Kingston Ferry
, with binoculars. -Desha Wood
*

09:44 - We have Residents!!! J26 foraging off Kayu Kayu Ac park,Richmond Beach, Shoreline

Entry 4:
09:40 - Orcas are spread mid channel to either side across channel from Richmond Beach to Kitsap
. All still trending northbound while still south of yellow mid channel buoy off Kayu Kayu/President Point. Slow northbound progression with a lot of slow directional changes. Like when residents are looking for salmon. Still not sure who we have. One male close to my side angling closer to this side while foraging.

09:26 -
See more orcas, now at least 10 spread across slowly heading north, but picking up some speed out from
Richmond Beach, Shoreline & east of Jefferson Head
, Kitsap.
At

09:08
I wrote friends to say I had reasons to believe I was watching residents. It was based on behavior, so many rounded dorsals, # of males, but distance & lighting prohibited visual on open saddles at that time... and we've had so many Ts lately. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

9:07 - Orcas straight out from Carkeek

Entry 5:
9:30.
*

08:52 -
I've now see up to at least
8 orcas
inc. at least 3 males if not 4. Same general area as
08:45 update still spread across, now more in a line mid channel and east of.

08:45 - I've seen at least 6 orcas,
including 2 males (poss. 3) & a calf/young one. Loosely spread out from
Carkeek
, mid channel and east of. Males each coming up on the outsides. Some directional changes while slow trend northbound. From Richmond Beach Saltwater Park. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

08:30 - orcas
northbound spread out just south of
Carkeek
, one large male in group. Seen from1/4 south of Fay Bainbridge Park, Bainbridge. -Sue Larkin
*

8:18 - at least 5 orcas heading north from North Beach
(just south of
Carkeek
). About mid-channel. -Sir Winston
*
Sun Apr 7 - BIGG'S TRANSIENT KILLER WHALES - A record setting day yesterday (Apr 7)! A long haul to follow up on a report in the
Strait of Georgia
led to us finding a very large group of Biggs killer whales. It started with the
T036As, T036Bs, T100s, T099s and T101s but as they continued west at high speed, they met up with the T124As (all of them), T090s, T124Ds and T086As around Halibut Bank!
A LOT of socializing ensued with tons of spyhops and vocals. I managed to capture the majority of them on camera and a few visual IDs. If all members were present (the only ones I couldn't confirm for sure were
T124D, T124D1, T036B2, T036A3, T124A4 and T090D
), the
total is 41 animals
! The previously known record group size per Jared Towers is 38 so this potentially the largest aggregation of Biggs on record!
T086A, T124A2 T124A2A, T124A2B, T090C. T124A2
spyhops in the
Strait of Georgia
on the day of "potentially the largest aggregation of Biggs on record!" -Photo by Gary Sutton
*

Entry 6:
T65As traveling north of Sinclair Island
(5 miles north of Anacortes near the north end of Cypress Island). - Taken aboard Spirit of Orca. -Photo by Ariel Yseth, Apr 7, 2019
*

Entry 7:
4 grey whales in Saratoga passage off Camano
. 2 came from the south together and are feeding heading north stopping just
south of Mabana
. Other 2 are separate and further away. -Jennifer Feldman Spanton
*

Entry 8:
12:30 -
On the way back south stopped to see steller sea lions on the green can off
Possession Point
and saw blows just to the south of it....we moved in that direction and watched several blows then finally gray 53 Little Patch arched showing his distinct little white patch...he was foraging around South of Cultus Bay, South Whidbey while J pod was foraging themselves just a short distance away.

11:40 - Gray whales Possession Sound: 49, 383, 531
milling around the Delta
between Hat Island and Everett
. All 3 together when first on scene, then 49 circle NE on his own and 383 and 531 headed SW then began wide circles sticking close together. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
Hello Alisa and friends, We went out on the Glacier Spirit this morning at
11am
with Chris and Bart and had an amazing time. We saw
3-4 Grays
and spent a lot of time with them. Left side of
49 Patch - Possession Sound, Gray whale 531 - Possession Sound, 531 goes on a dive - Possession Sound, 383 dives alongside 531 in Possession Sound SE of Hat Island
. They put on a nice show with plenty of flukes, a few spy hops and just hanging out....Great times!!! See you all next week at the event! -David and Meliss Haeckel
*
Hein Bank - Here is the picture of the
Gray Whale we encountered NW of Hein Bank
heading east towards Salmon Bank -

