Orca Sightings for September 19, 2019
============================================================

Entry 1:
Thu Sept 19 -
Puget Sound - (
Js, K13s, & L87
- alb
) - It was getting dark and seemed to be a group of youngsters possibly? Not sure if this is the right place, but on the evening of the 19th we were some of only a couple people outside in front of the
ferry coming back from Bainbridge Island
to Seattle. There were
5-6
that appeared suddenly to the front left of the ferry and fully breached/played for a few and then swam along the ferry towards Bainbridge. Sure this is way past when it's needed/wanted but it was beautiful. We are from Montana but my husband used to live here and raced sailboats and was on the water a lot and he said he had never seen them so active, and another gentleman that made it outside said he had ridden the ferry back and forth almost daily most of his life and it was a first for him. I do have a very short video if it's of interest. It was just changing light so my phone didn't want to focus but for one second it did and have a tiny bit. It was beautiful though. -Kiersten Rich Bare
*

07:30 - Orca's (two) in Elliot Bay
Vashon Water Taxi almost at a crawl. -Michael Yaguchi
*
SOUTHERN RESIDENTS Puget Sound

Entry 2:
Js, K13s, L87 -

22:40 - Pretty sure Orcas coming south down Colvos Pass
. I'm 1.5 miles south of Southworth ferry on kitsap side. Heard a lot of blows headed South, traveling fast.
They came through Colvos around 5am this morning but were headed north
....Matt King
*

19:38 -
John Miller WSF Ops called report
6 orca heading southbound in northbound ship lanes edge of, adjacent to Elliott Bay
.
*

18:42 - Currently southbound just off Discovery Point
. -Craig Smith McMaster
*

18:35 - Resident Orcas. SB towards West Point
. Mid channel. Viewing from Sunset Hill Park (Ballard, above Shilshole Marina). -Jill Irwin
*

18:10 - Resident Orcas. Southbound Meadow Pt. Mid channel.
-Lance King
*

17:55 - Js, Ks and L87
stalled while slow trend
southbound
, now bit south of Richmond Beach mid channel in glassy calm seas. One NOAA Research boat with them.

17:01. Pod has been in resting mode last hour. Now south of Kingston/Point Wells
. Drifted just west of mid channel. Beautiful orcas, beautiful day, beautiful people. Breath taking. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
(
IDs per Brad Hanson NOAA: "so far
J pod, K13s and L87
"
)
*

17:13 - Orca. just off Richmond Beach, still SB
. Perfect day.

16:26 - Mid channel just north of Edmonds/Kingston lane
. Right next to Clipper that has cut engine. Slowly SB. -Mike Ferdinandi
*

16:00 - Residents are staying in Puget Sound proper
, at least for now. Currently mid channel, transect
Edmonds/Eglon
traveling slow steady pace. Together but loosely spread. The Two Research boats still out collecting samples etc.

15:20 - They stalled out south of Whidbey
foraging for a while and are now moving slow pace
southbound
currently, Edmonds side of mid channel...some still milling.

14:55 - pods still spread out. Out from northern Edmonds
, mid channel and east of. Aimed towards south Whidbey (Cultus Bay/Possession Point), but still south of. Think they have
stalled a bit
after forward progress northbound.

14:20 - I believe all have passed north of Kingston dock/Edmonds Marina Beach
. Mostly mid channel with some on either side. Still spread with larger group middle. Active foraging, some breaching, tail lobs earlier. Steady northbound, but not really in any hurry. Visible with naked eye from Edmonds. Some appeared to be veering east as if staying in. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

14:19 Sighted off Edmonds ferry - midchannel
(seen from our office above Bracketts Landing). -Kristin Sirkkola
*

15:49 -
Looks like the pod may all be together again. Still
south of Elgon, north of Kingston
..I see possibly 10 or so, Headin south

14:46 - they are still south of Elgon
and taking their sweet precious time underwater. Lol

14:29 -
they were then they were south of where my scope was positioned so looks like they are kind of moving back and forth. I lost them for now, but last I saw they were still
south of Elgon
.

14:16 - Spotted just south of Eglon
, Only see maybe 2 or 3. -Alice Thuy Talbot
*

13:40 -

13:50 -
Just left
Fay Bainbridge
they were barely visible in mirage nb heading to or past
Kingston ferry lanes
. -Donna Van Renselaar
*

13:35 Orcas heading north. Between Kingston ferry terminal and Point Wells
. Far East side of channel. Saratoga is with them. -Carol DeRusha
*

13:01 -
Mid channel off
Presidents Point
ever so slowly headed north, lots of fish showing so they're feeding well. -Gary Peterson
*

13:40 - Residents are spread across channel Kingston/Woodway
slowly heading
northbound
toward Apple Tree Point and Edmonds. Larger group mid channel. Some tail lobs, spyhops, inverted swimming. Active foraging behavior.

12:45 - Watching at least 10 Southern Resident orcas in two groups mid Sound out from Carkeek and mid Port Madison
. Larger group (incl male(s?) mid channel with smaller group, including male, just west of them. Slow movement northbound and some directional changes. AND at least one more male trailing about 1/4-1/2 mile on east side of channel moving faster pace closing in on the othersBoth research boats out with the whales. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

12:17 - Two groups in the channel around Golden Gardens
, one group with several closer to the west side of the channel and another several are over on the east side. Both groups heading north. -Kate Hruby
*

12:15 -
We watched the
Southern Residents
for over an hour from several high bluff locations on the
east side of Bainbridge Island
. General behavior was very spread out and very slow moving with occasional stops to forage, especially when close to fishing boats. No way to get positive id's but pretty sure
J11's
stuck together most of the time and foraged closer to Bainbridge side. I never counted more than 3 adult males, but hard to say that's all they're were. Whales stayed close to surface most of the time with an occasional breach or tail slap. Picked up pace around noon with several shifting to travel mode and longer down times. They continuid north bound trend spread clear across from Rolling Bay off Bainbridge to mid-channel toward Shilshoal with trailers off West Point lighthouse. -Susan Marie Andersson
*

12:15 - Orcas moving north near Point Wells
. Watching from Rolling Bay. -Dorothy Rosenbladt
*

12:01 - Resident Orcas. Viewing from Rolling Bay
. Line of sight towards a Golden Gardens. One male and several others northbound. Appear closer to east side. -Bob Rosenbladt
*

11:42 - Resident Orcas
Still seeing group from
Discovery Park bluff
, well past now, slowly moving north north west.
1 male and 4-5 females
seen. -Alex Meilleur
*

11:40 - Resident Orcas.
We are watching them with binoculars from
the viewpoint by the Daybreak Star Indian Cultural Center
. They are mid-channel. Appears to be about 6 trending north. -Meghan Ruth Schuster
*

11:17 - Resident Orca.
Just saw one, off
west point lighthouse
...+2-3 more headed north mid ish channel (from discovery park bluff) some appear to be mililing off the lighthouse. -Alex Meiller
*
Thursday 19th of September @

10:10am -
9:40am
ferry saw when exiting
Eagle harbor channel
. Ferry had to slow to a stop as one was crossing starboard to port at the bow. GPS Coordiates(roughly): 47.605034, -122.465922. -Jordan de Geus
*

10:12 -
Whales in Puget Sound seen off of the
9:40 Bainbridge ferry to Seattle. Off the coast of
Magnolia heading north. 6 dorsal fins spotted
. Captain said there are a whole bunch of whales around today. -Christine Pomeroy.
*

09:42 -
I spotted two dorsals, one male one female, across the bay with binoculars from the Seattle ferry terminal area. -Kaarina Makowski
*

09:46 - 3 to 5 orca
just headed south past
Alki Point
just now. Saw 2 jump out of the water earlier about an hour ago headed north past discovery park. -Zach Ward
*

09:45 - Resident Orcas
. Ferry
from Bremerton about 10 min out of Seattle
. 7 or so whales, pretty sure I saw one calf traveling calmly.
Captain said Js and Ks

Entry 3:
*

09:44 - Resident Orcas.
And a little ways south of that (
Duwamish Head/Colman Dock
) there are more, too far away to count or see direction but possible research boat with them.

09:40 - One large orca solo. Watching from
Duwamish Head
he's directly between me and
Bainbridge ferry landing
, mid channel slow northbound. -Ray Shea
*

09:40 - Resident Orcas
. Still out there! I can see
at least 7
, very small fishing boat just to their south, maybe a bit
south of Bainbridge ferry
lane. Longish down times. Trending west, I think. I'm watching through binoculars above pier 55 area. -Donita Gier
*
We were heading back from Tacoma at
9:30 and saw a full pod that we estimated as
10 by Alki Point
. We were too far away for an identification, but there were several very large Orcas (Males). They were at this time heading south. We saw slapping of tales and they appeared to be hunting as they were spread out in a circle. -Marti Rinker
*

9:40 - Resident Orcas.
Whales are so spread.
J26
still frolicking alone while slowly heading west. Multiple grouped females also heading west. Now west of Elliot bay proper. Other groups heading NW.

09:20 - J26
heading out of bay Westerly with lots of tail lobbing...Lots of surface behavior whales seem agitated several boats two ferries, one foot ferry and mark Sears research boat on scene.

09:09 -
Resident Orcas. Large group several males Westbound Double ferry action passing them now. Westbound still on north side of ferry and bay

09:04 -
Resident Orca. Large male westbound, passing marina. Foot ferry right next to him now...Passengers on ferry should have excellent view. Early morning with
L87 Onyx...J26 Mike heading out of Elliott Bay
. -Kersti Muul
*

08:55 - Resident Orcas
. Milling about 1/4 mi
northwest of Duwamish head
. WSF and a few fishing boats out, doing a great job of being whale wise. -Patrick Hutchins
*

08:45 - 3 orcas off Alki
milling around buoy (One between brainbridge ferry route an Alki). No direction. -Sandhya Ballal
*

08:42 -
Hello, Just wanted to report an
orca sighting off of Alki
this morning from the
Bremerton Fast Ferry
. I saw what looked like an adult male, tall dorsal fin. But I heard other people on the boat say it looked like a family. So I believe there were more in the area. But I only saw the one. Thank you, Tad Standing Bear
*

08:55 - Resident Orcas. 3(?) whales
just south of the ferry that is very slow. They are mingling in one area.

08:25 - Resident Orcas
. I can see them passing through the
Bainbridge ferry lane southbound
. -Donita Gier
*

08:21 -
Maija with WS Ferries Ops called to relay repors of
orcas (they presuming Js & Ks) north of Alki
. She put out a broad broadcast to their crews. Ferries have slowed around the whales.
*

08:26 - Orcas in Elliot Bay
seen off the Seattle WSF. Back to back ferry. Adult male in Elliott Bay
alongside Bainbridge to Seattle Ferry taken at
07:55

Entry 4:
*

08:20 - From Bainbridge Ferry

Entry 5:
*

08:20 - Orcas
are all over! Headed towards
Magnolia Bluff

Entry 6:
*

08:24 - Resident Orcas
. I can now see the one male with the naked eye from my place which never happens. He's getting closer to the Interbay side of the entrance to the bay and there may actually be two of them. The distribution is more like what I've seen with hunting Ts before but the actual action looks more like foraging for fish.

08:19 -
Resident Orcas. I think there's another male with the group of females and younger ones to the north but am not 100% sure.

08:11 -
Resident Orcas. They're definitely milling. Large male now behind what I think is the
Sea-Bainbridge ferry
. Group of females and young ones spread out at the far north end of the Elliot Bay entrance. The male is going after something. It may well be a fish but I'm not sure....What I believe to be the Bremerton ferry appears to be stopped and the group of female and young one's on its north side

07:57 -
Resident Orcas. Some are going north now too, so I think it's fair to say they're milling. There's a HUGE male at the
far W end of Elliot Bay
. Should be very visible from Alki. Also, two WSFs are out so hopefully they can get you good IDs.

07:49 - We've got orcas in the shipping lanes by Elliot Bay
. I'm looking from lower Queen Anne with binoculars, but I think there are at least 2 males, 2 females and 2 calves, one appears very young. Trending slowly south but very spread out. All seem to be north of the Seattle BI ferry at this point....will try to keep an eye out as best I can. Can't see saddles, but I wonder if it may be part of J pod. -Katie Kirking
*

07:40 - Orcas between Alki and Bainbridge
, moving closer to Bainbridge in the last ten mins or so, possibly one male

07:31 - Orca
. Possible sighting right now. Three individuals between
Alki and Bainbridge
near ferry channel...seem to be milling about feeding, north northwest of barge right now. I'm on Alki and 63rd and they're moving away. -Kathleen Fife
*

07:30 - Orca's (two) in Elliot Bay
Vashon Water Taxi almost at a crawl. -Michael Yaguchi
*

Entry 7:
1:30 pm today, the T100s came into Active Pass and transited quickly eastbound
. Photos (below) taken from the shore of Galiano Island. -Cheers, Karoline Cullen, Salish Sea Orca Squad
*

Entry 8:
15:00 - Male and female heading west through Spieden Channel
.
(
this was posted on our FB page with the Puget Sound sightings then removed before I copied the reporting party's name -
alb)
*

14:20 Orcas milling Limestone Point at the top of San Juan Channel
. -Monika Wieland Shields
*

Entry 9:
Sooke
with
around 30 humpback whales
and I was able to get 20 Fluke ID shots all on our morning tour! -Paul Pudwell
*

Entry 10:
Humpbacks Yogi (BCY0409) and Strike (BCX unknown)
, photos below. The whales were first sighted about 1145 off
Saturna Island
. They traveled south
through Tumbo Channel.
-Breck Tyler
*

Entry 11:
16:03 -
While watching
Js/Ks/L87 (mid channel between Edmonds/Eglon
, transect) I also just saw blow and back of the
humpback
just bit further southwest of orcas! Both in view same time. Magical. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

3:00
Looked like a
humpback passed Eglon. Southbound
. East side of channel. -Carol Derusha
*

Entry 12:
afternoon
WSF called to report whale
southbound off Point Wilson
, thought to be a
minke
.
*

Entry 13:
3-4 Dall Porpoises just 100 yards off the Suquamish fishing pier around 1PM
today. They were very dark in color but with patches of white. I have see these as well as the monochromatic Harbor Porpoises from this spot. Cute little buggers! -Casey Burns

