Orca Sightings for September 21, 2019
============================================================

Entry 1:
Js, K13s, L87
- I have questions. I was at Point No Point on Saturday and saw Orcas off in the distance closer to the land on the other side, perhaps
Picnic Point
. I watched them all the way until they were closer to Edmonds using binoculars. My question. There was a research boat that I could see with one of the crew holding something blue hanging from a blue rod and also what appeared to be a drone. There also was a large white boat that seemed to be traveling with the Orcas and looked very close. What was to blue thing and what is law concerning drones by Orcas? It was incredible to watch all the very active Orcas! -Denise Hershey Seaman
(
Researchers were out collecting samples, deploying dtags, and conducting photogrammerty
)
*

19:12 - a few orcas at red map marker going south
. -Ron Sorrell
*

18:55 - Orca. Southbound mid-channel and off Bainbridge side approaching Rolling Bay
. Very spread out. -Lance King
*

18:40 - Orcas.
Watching them from Sunset Hill (Ballard) - they're directly out from
Shilshole
, they are spread out and still
trending south
. And there are some lucky sailboats out there tonight. -Danielle Carter
*

18:34 -About a dozen orcas about a mile north of West Point
headed towards West Point right now. -Bradley Summers
*

18:02 - Orcas. Across from Jefferson Boat Launch
, heading southwest. First time seeing orcas! -Samantha Whitaker
*

17:45 - Orcas. 3 due west of Carkeek park, 6 more orcas mid channel from Medow Point all south bound
at a casual pace. ...I know some of these shots look like I'm right on top of them but after cropping and using a Nikon P900 with a 28-2000mm zoom, you feel like your right there...Gary Peterson
*

17:49 - Orcas
. They have gone past
Presidents Point
10 mins ago, put on a show. Must have been
7 or 8 of them.
..

17:24 - Orcas. From Presidents Point at
5:24pm
...Trish Moylan Davis
*

17:36 - Orcas Spotted from Richmond Beach
. Closer to Kitsap side. 2 enormous cruise ships spewing brown smoke going through them. -Christy Avery
*

17:15 - Orcas. Mid channel just a tad South of Kingston.

Entry 2:
*

16:40-

16:45 - Orcas. Just seen from WSF from Kingston.
Mid sound heading south.
About 5-6 of them
. -Jennifer Bryant
*

16:45 -
Update: orcas spread far and wide along Kitsap side now
traveling steadily south of Apple tree to Kingston
. Unbelievable viewing for last hour, quite a few males plus clusters of females as close as 600 yards offshore to 1/2 mile out. Hopefully pics will come out will post later. There was foraging milling breaching pec display and spyhopping!...I want to add that there were
way more than 8-10 orcas altogether
- they were spread out n to south and westside to mid channel and we saw multiple clusters of between 2-6 individuals together, I think 8 in one group though it was hard to count. That is based on our viewing from Apple Tree Cove until
4:45 . I'm guessing it was all of J's and K13s who've been in for days. -Donna Green van Renselaar
*

16:30 -

17:45 -
We watched them move south slowly from the Saltair Beach Park at the
Kingston Ferry Terminal
. Spread out all throughout the channel with lots of splashing at times, a dorsal fin showing, a few breaches, and spyhops. We counted 4 in the beginning and then maybe a 2nd group of 5 with 2 large males. -Jolena Tagg
*

16:45 - Orcas
. Spyhops and breaching in front of the cruise ship. Watching from
Salt Air Beach Park, Kingston

Entry 3:
*

16:30 - Orcas. 2 large males passing Apple Tree Pt SB. J27 foraging and traveling...
. Some foraging. Others all spread out into shipping lane.

16:10 - Orcas.
At least some heading south now a
pproaching ferry (Kingston)
. West side of shipping lane. Many north and west of there. Very spread out. Lots of foraging.

15:50 - Orcas
. Seem to be
trending east... possibly around Possession again?
Lots of activity: breaches, tails lobs, spy hops. -Sara Frey
*

16:06 - Resident orcas still spread from just north of Apple Tree Point to Rose Point.
Most over on west side of channel, lead group of at least 6 (incl. male) have moved east towards mid channel. Large male further west trailing. Another group of 6+ trailing. Lovely illuminated blows and dorsals in summer sun. All southbound medium pace.

15:35 - I can see orcas
blowing and dorsals rising out of the haze heading southbound in far away distance
on Kitsap side out from Eglon/Rose Point
area. Nice breach out from Rose Point! NOAA boat nearby. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

16:00 -
We were so excited to see a pod of Orcas two days in a row
heading South past President's Point
on Saturday
September 21 around
4:00 PM
and 22nd at
11:00
. There were at least 6 in the first group and 8 the second day. -Judy Kimelman
*

16:16 -
Red research boat close in, pod milling? Feeding behavior? Closer to
Kitsap north of Apple Tree Point
.

16:05 - Orcas. 8+
same area (as
15:55 update). Some milling, south, near sailboat with smaller boat next to it.

15:55 - Orcas. Mid channel between Eglon and Kingston
, 4? heading south. NOAA just behind. Others seen intermittently farther out and farther south. -Beverly Steinman
*

15:37 - About 8-12 orcas heading south. Just passed Eglon
. Mid channel. Lots of activity. -Carol DeRusha
*

15:22 -
We are seeing male orca with NOAA boat drifting slowly, generally southwest
Kitsap side south of Point No Point
. There have seen several more breaches by large male and smaller whale. Breaches galore and a big spyhop through
3:30 pm from Apple Tree Point.

15:08 -
Eyes on from Apple Tree Point to North-
Orcas east of Point No Point
, in front of Double Bluff from where we are - multiple breaches two whales near research boat. -Donna Green van Renselaar (w/Sara Frey)
*

15:03 - Orcas
. Multiple fins, spouts and breaches.
ESE from PNP
. Seem to be moving slowly south

14:56 - Orcas.
Large male fin spotted with binoculars due
east of Point No Point, headed south
. -Thomas Buell Jr
*

14:53 - Orcas
. NOAA vessel with them
north of Eglon, Whidbey side trending south
. Too far to get numbers. -Carol DeRusha
*

14:45 - Orcas
. From
PNP
, visible with binoculars mid channel. More bunched up with two trailing. Moving south. NOAA boat trailing slowly.

14:22 - At Point No Point
: orcas visible looking east with binoculars. 8-10? Tail lobs, few breaches. Appeared to be milling about, but now seem to be moving westward toward PNP since I can now see fins and splashes without binoculars. -Martha Carlstead
*

13:50 - Orcas.
Viewing from Maxwelton Park, we could see spouts
couple miles S of Point No Point. Appear to be heading NW
. -Pamela Pakker-Kozicki
*

13:20 - Orcas
are spread out with at least one group who
moved SW from Possession Point
and moved over to the Kitsap side of mid channel (southbound shipping lanes), currently
near Eglon, Kitsap heading southbound
. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

13:00 -
Viewing from Scatchet Head: Orcas are north of here and appear to be
heading NW towards Admiralty Inlet
. -Marilyn Armbruster
*

12:51 - Picnic point
they're super far away now south...That was exciting. Even from far (picnic point) saw about 12 breaches in a short time

12:38 - Orcas.
They're on the red dot (map). Headed southwest. Saw a few breaches. -Alexander Simenstad
*

12:47 - Orcas
. They are currently crossing
Possession Bar possibly SW
. It is difficult to determine exact heading because I am quite a ways away.

12:36 - Orcas. They have just rounded Possession Point heading NW in Admiralty Inlet
. -Wendy Brock
*

12:23 - Orcas
. They are at the base of Whidbey, the cove by Possession and
Possession Beach Waterfront park.
-Ann Cornelius
*

12:35 - Orcas
. They have merged with the fishing boats, still heading south west not sure yet if they are going across inlet.

12:23 - Orcas.
The group is almost around the corner, Stamm overlook in Edmonds probably best view, research skiff on scene... Absolutely amazing day with Tim on the Sea Panda!
Southern Residents J's, some K's and L87
. All photos taken with telephoto lens, zoomed and cropped for details. All whale watch regulations followed. -Janine Harles
*

12:20 -

12:40 -
watched them
pass by the Clinton ferry dock area
about a half mile offshore at 1220pm today
heading south
fairly quickly. Two large adults were breaching repeatedly. I believe they were eight in total, some juvenile. No really small ones. I drove to Possession Beach to watch them go by again roughly 20 minutes later, same behavior. A NOAA Zodiac was tailing them fairly close. I got some rad breaching videos! -Noah Person
*
Noon - So close to Glendale, southbound!

Entry 4:
*
Wow. No words. Okay, some words.
Day two of resident orcas in Possession Sound
! I tossed and turned all night because I knew they were out there. Knew they would be here when I woke up. Sure enough... looking outside in soupy skies and water and the message goes out orcas breaching at the ferry! Oh my, run down to the ferry dock. Then watch them travel
along Hat Island angling toward Saratoga Passage
. Not so fast, turn back around and come back into Possession and stop the ferries! Yes,
the ferry couldn't get off the dock at 11
and then when they did they still had to stop. After watching from my deck and driveway a while, I went to Glendale where we had close pass-bys of several whales! Close I tell you! And then raced to
Possession
just in time to see some massive breaching as they headed down to the tip of Whidbey. Whew! -Debbie Stewart
*

11:46 - Orcas
. They've fully cleared the ferry lanes after a ton of breaching and are visible from
Glendale, still southbound
. Ferries are finally at destination after a significant delay. What a morning! I heard so many kids and parents squeal as they saw them breach! For most, it was their first time seeing whales! -Durand Dace
*

11:28 - Orcas
. Seeing groups
south of Clinton ferry
. Saratoga still with them.. Hooray! -Bonnie Gretz
*

11:20 -
Watched a
bout 12-15 orcas today between Clinton and Mukilteo
. Tail splashes, belly flops, etc. arrived about
11:20 am
headed southbound
. One male Orca included in the pod for sure! -Janet Hammond
*
This was at

11:10
just now getting around to posting. This was when they were at the
Clinton ferry crossing

Entry 5:
*

11:07 -
The
11:00am ferry not off dock due to orcas. Announcements being made for people to get out of their cars and look on
all sides of the boat
. -Debbie Stewart
*

11:02 - Orcas. Right in front of the Clinton Ferry! 12+
PLEASE drive slow they are all spread out and playing, milling!! So many of them!! It's incredible! They seem so happy! Lots of breaching, tale slaps and spy hops! -Ann Cornelius
*

10:57 - Orcas
. At least one small group with male female and calf picked up pace
traveling south towards Clinton ferry
. -Debbie Stewart
*

10:12 Orcas.
Spread out milling
between Brighton Beach and Hat Island
. Saratoga on scene with southernmost group.

09:30 - Orcas
. At least one person running along the shore at Hat island having the most epic encounter ever. -Rachel Haight
*
Dreamy close pass by
Js, K13s, & L87 off NW shore of Hat Island
Saturday morning. This short compilation of 2 clips shows many behaviors by these lovely fish-eating orcas: traveling, directional changes, logging, breaching, tail lob, spy hop, all while moving southbound in Possession Sound (northern Puget Sound). Much gratitude to Lori Christopher for sharing her videos/encounter with us all! Breach off Hat Island.
*

09:23 - Orcas. Meandering back south, east side of Sandy Point
. I'm heading home but will keep an eye on the feed with hopes they head up the passage!

08:56 - Orcas
. Seeing a few on the
east side of Sandy Point, Langley
. Surfacing and spouting. Viewing with binochs from Cascade Ave. Multiple breaches or at least big splashes I can't tell exactly. -Christy Korrow
*

09:51 - Orcas.
Still south,
near and in ferry lanes
, lots of frolicking! Angling towards Clinton ferry dock, chasing fish!

09:09 - Orcas all along north side of Hat Island
, lots of breaches, slaps....

08:55 - Orcas NE end of Hat Island
heading towards Everett. -Janine Harles
*

09:05 -
David is still at
Brighton Beach
, with long lens (they are far away) - they are breaching, playing, tail slapping - he's counted at least 10-12. They are jumping all over the place, still
near Port Susan
area - no boats around except 1 North - pretty far away.

08:36 - Multiple Orcas at Northwest side of Hat
near homes. Viewing from Brighton Beach. -Meliss & David Haeckel
*

08:40 - 5 Orcas passing West side of Hat Island heading north.
-Kim Vest Gleason
*

08:27 - Orcas.
They've grouped up and picked up the pace slightly. Traversing very close to
Hat Island
and houses at northwest will get close pass by in the next few minutes. Looks soupy up in Saratoga.

08:07 - Orcas. Large group near SE Hat Island
. Best place to be. Wake up Hat Island!

07:31- Orcas.
large group milling and still surface activity in quadrant
between Everett, Hat Island and ferry lanes
. I'm viewing from end of Clinton ferry dock. Must have binocs to see from here. No direction. -Debbie Stewart
*

07:40 - Orcas.
Viewing from Brighton Beach. They seem to be heading more north now to pass
between Hat Island and Whidbey
. -Danielle Pennington
*

07:19 - Orca
. ...heading north not far off from
Clinton ferry terminal
! Breaching and all! -Sonja Lindendstein
*
Good afternoon Alisa, We finally had our second Orca sighting after many years!...Our most recent sighting was yesterday morning
September 21, when we were on the
Mukilteo to Clinton Ferry ride and looking north on Possession Sound just south of Hat Island, and we saw a pod of Orcas starting at
7:09 am
! There were a lot of them together in a group splashing, spy hopping and breaching (we had binoculars)! It was truly a memorable sight and one we will never forget! It is the first time we saw anything like this since Free Willy 2 the movie! When we got off the ferry we quickly parked and headed off to the edge of the ferry terminal and looked for them. They were still in the same area and looked like they're heading in the direction of Jetty Island by the port of Everett. Thank you for allowing us to enjoy and appreciate these beautiful and wonderful creatures through the Orca Network! Keep up the great work you are doing! -Sincerely, Tim & Amy Sumabat
*
L105, L91 and L122
making bubbles at
Lime Kiln

Entry 6:
L55s and L47s and L88 at Lime Kiln
...Also seeing
26s, 43s and 54s
...Got a picture of
L108
... Saturday. Photos taken at
Hannah Heights or Lime Kiln
. L pod heading towards Vancouver. Taken from lighthouse as they traveled with the setting sun towards Vancouver...
L72
lunging in sunset at Lime Kiln...
L86...L105
heading towards lighthouse passing Hannah Heights. -Kersti Muul
*

18:27 - Haro Strait
, observed and photographed from shore. (I identified
L Pod members
but there were many individuals I couldn't ID) 6 orcas in a group
traveling to the N/NW towards Edwards Point from Hannah Hts
. -Michelline Halliday, SJI
*
Taken from the Westside Preserve. On 9/21, all members of the
L4s and L54s swam south past the Landbank within 300' of shore
. There was also a large male farther offshore,
likely L88 who's adopted mom is L54

Entry 7:
*

13:45 - Orca
Sighting off
San Juan Island
. 250 depth, came out of water, headed northwest possibly for silver salmon run. Only one, very large came up twice. (around Salmon Bank). -Candance Bott Haines
*

10:54 - one male and a couple of females
seen at west side reserve on
San Juan island
! Might be feeding. We think they're residents. -Taylor Mannes
*

10:45 - 7 orcas north of Lime Kiln lighthouse
. -Tammy Felker
*

09:52 -
There's some chatty ones visible at
Lime Kiln and clear on the hydrophone
. -Meg Sellers
*

08:50 -

14:47 - Haro Strait
, observed and photographed from shore. (I identified
L Pod members
but there were many individuals I couldn't ID)wave after wave of orcas traveled and
foraged between Hannah Hts and Edwards Point
, changing direction nearly a dozen times. At
11:30am 7 orcas foraged with a group of sports fishing vessels. In the afternoon a tight group of 10 traveled past to the S/SE (
1:10 pm) then reversed direction to the N/NW (
2:10 pm). A bit complicated to get an accurate head count, I saw 10 at one time so estimating 10 - 14? 16? individuals.
I believe I observed; L105 Fluke; L82 Kasatka; L54 Ino and members of L55 matriline; L55 Nugget; her daughter L103 Lapis; L103's daughter L123 Lazuli
. I'm including some of the images that I based my L Pod IDs on. Thanks so much, -Michelline Halliday, SJI
*

Entry 8:
Lone males T77A and T11A off Sooke
! Within 5 minutes of leaving our docks we found
Transient Killer Whales (T011a & T077a)
tight together on the hunt! First I have witnessed these two LARGE orca together! Then a visit to Race Rocks with sea lions and "Ollie" the sea otter and shortly after we had a visit with two humpback whales. What another great morning on the salt chuck! -Paul Pudwell
*

Entry 9:
Orcas off the Manzanita coast in Oregon
. We watched them for a couple hours between

2:00-
4:30
. There was a group of 3 it seemed like and on the other end of the coast there were more of them. There were a couple boats near them that seemed like they were watching them as well. We saw the dorsal fin, them blowing water up and the white on their bodies reflecting in the sun as they came up. We even saw them breech a couple times. I don't know if they were going back and forth but it kind of seemed like it. I didn't think Orcas were even on the Oregon coast and especially not at this time but I don't know what else they could have been. I don't know why I didn't try to get a picture but they were far enough out I don't think it would have showed any detail. It was so cool!! -Abby Obiero
*

Entry 10:
17:03 -
Marie WS Ferries Ops called to report
a humpback
) 1/2 mile north of Tango Buoy
between Alki and Restoration Point
.
*

16:35 - Humpback spotted a mile NNW from Alki point
. -Nancy Stillger
*

16:05 - Humpback rounding Alki point heading north east
, shot from Weather Watch Park. It was so close to shore at the point! (See PHOTO)

15:58 - Humpback moving north east
fast, heading towards Alki lighthouse.

15:25 - Humpback. Still at North end of Blake island
, definitely a humpback. Just saw the tail! -Terri McAllister
*
Humpback "Two Spot" CRC16017 (aka CS631 aka MMZ0013) off Alki

Entry 11:
*

15:04 -
Just saw what I am quite certain is a
humpback
. I am at Andover Place in
West Seattle
, and the whale appeared to be near the shore for
Blake Island
. It was moving North about 10 minutes ago, then resurfaced in the same spot heading South. So seems to be hanging around the area. -Jamie Lilly
*

14:50 -
Spotted the whale from Lowman Beach in West Seattle. Looked like
a humpback
to me - could see its dorsal peak. Just
north of Restoration Point, heading north
. West side of channel. -Trileigh Tucker
*

13:45 -
Marie with WS Ferries Ops called to report a large whale
southbound off Restoration Point, S Bainbdrige
. Reported by crew as possibly gray whale. We've had humpbacks reported earlier southbound along Bainbridge.
*

13:05 - Humpback spotted off of SEA -> BI ferry mid channel moving south
. -Anna Zocher
*

11:12 - Humpbacks just west of Port Madison, heading south
. -Cheryl Hamernik Taylor
*
Got a call at

10:25
from Sean Piaer about
2 humpbacks. One at Jefferson Head, heading south, and one off Possession Point
.

