Orca Sightings for May 8, 2011
============================================================

Entry 1:
Orca Network received a report about
five orcas
entering
Active Pass
from the north about
5 pm
. They did three breaches, then went south into the pass, as seen from the BC Ferries.
*
We had hiked up Young Hill on
San Juan
and were looking out over
Haro
when we saw an enormous
Orca
breaching repeatedly. There were no other whales nearby and no boats in the immediate area. The size was what was most impressive because even from that distance with no binoculars, this whale seemed very big. Sorry I don't have better details for you. I think it was around 10 am, we didn't see what direction he headed, just breached a bunch then kind of disappeared. Have a great night!
Gretchen Bailey
I asked Gretchen if it
may have been the humpback
that was photographed breaching in Haro Strait about the same time, but she replied: It wasn't a humpback, definitely an orca but I couldn't see his dorsal fin.
*
Around

10:30
we found Patch (
Gray whale #49
) just SE of Sandy Point (
SE Whidbey Isl
). He was heading generally eastward. We saw his dorsal patch several times and his flukes twice, so it was easy to tell who we were looking at. We also saw six sea lions hauled out on the Possession Point buoy, 2 Californian and 4 Steller's.
Stephanie Raymond, Naturalist, Victoria Clipper III
*
My family and I saw some
orcas
this evening off
Point Robinson
. I haven't seen any reports of it on West Seattle Blog or your sites, so maybe it's worth mentioning. All we saw were fins and backs, coming up and going under lots of times over about 15-20 minutes, around
6:00 p.m. today. We were at the beach near Point Robinson lighthouse. The orcas started out northeast of the point, moved south a bit, then moved off northeast again before disappearing. From the number of fins surfacing at more or less the same time, I'd guess there were at least four or five whales. They were mainly close together, with a couple of outliers. Since they were nearly in the middle of the channel and we were on land, we couldn't see any particular markings or other individual distinctions. We live in West Seattle--this was just a day excursion to Vashon--and we hardly ever see orcas or other whales, so we're not really expert observers. We had no camera with us, unfortunately, and therefore also didn't get any photos. But it was a treat to see those lovely whales, nonetheless! Hope someone else also saw them today and has better info for you. Best,
Molly Winter, West Seattle
We didn't get any other reports of orcas in the Vashon area, however it's not impossible for Transient orcas to sneak by! however, upon further information from the reporter and some of her descriptions, it is our guess that they MAY have been watching porpoise rather than orcas.
*

4:54 pm
: At least
4 Orcas
seen off the BC Ferry Queen of New Westminster, Georgia Straight side of
Active Pass
.
Tim Green
*
Emily from Beam Reach called Orca Network to report watching
two humpbacks
west of Kellett Bluff,
Haro Strait
, from

10:30 -
11:30 am
, pec-slapping and breaching! Then Mandy Bailey posted this report and photos. A photo of one of the humpbacks that we (Beam Reach) saw breaching this morning! Photo by Carlos Javier Sanchez. This fella started with a breach, did a series of these chin slaps, and ended with another breach. It was amazing!
Mandy Bailey, Beam Reach Science and Sustainability School
*
We headed north and around toward Battleship Island,
Haro Strait
in search of giants. The calm seas and lack of wind afforded us a quick and comfortable ride out into
Haro Strait
. As soon as we got past Battleship one of our smaller, younger passengers started yelling and jumping up and down. Whales! The enormous exhalation and tiny dorsal fin were definitely not those of an Orca. What we had encountered was a much less frequent visitor to the islands. The
two Humpback whales
took 3 small breaths and then rounded out their backs, curling down until their massive flukes lifted toward the sky. A cheer broke out from every boat within 2 miles. We waited. Ten minutes later the duo surfaced again. Again, 3 surface breaths and then a dive. We prepared to wait another 10 minutes but the pattern changed. The whales surfaced after only a few minutes had passed. They dove quickly but surfaced again a short time later. Each time we were clued in to their surfacing by the sound of their exhalations. Magical. Once more the whales came to the surface, lifted their flukes and dove. A moment later we began to notice footprints in a neat little line off our starboard side. We knew the whales were swimming just below the surface. We shut down the boat and waited in anticipation. The footprints continued for maybe a quarter of a mile before the whales finally surfaced again. We watched as the dove and headed off toward Canada. With plenty of time remaining in our trip we turned north toward
Stuart Island
. We pulled in close to shore to take a peek at a pair of bald eagles and were surprised by a Steller Seal Lion that popped up behind us. Then a Harbor Seal Surfaced as well. Suddenly we noticed a tiny animal scurry out of a little cave and slide down into the water. We watched as a River Otter swam along the rocks, looking for a snack. More eagles (including 2 juveniles) and seals on the way back in. What a day for charismatic megafauna!
Laura, Naturalist, San Juan Safaris, San Juan Island, WA
*
We spotted some killer whales today and as we got close we could see they had killed a gray whale calf earlier in the morning. It's front half was floating in the water and there were
6-7 killer whales
present. They'd pull the carcass under the surface for about 8 minutes or so and then it would float back up. They'd break up into mini pods and rejoin several times. There were gulls, shearwaters, and black-footed albatross there as well. Two very young calves in the group, one male, and a few females & juveniles. A boat coming out of Santa Cruz north of us says he came across a lone gray whale on his way over to the action and said it looked like it had a bite wound behind it's blowhole-- possibly the mother of the calf. Killer whales must hate mothers day.
Kate Cummings,Blue Ocean Whale Watch, Inc , Moss Landing,
Monterey Bay, CA
*
More Orcas off
Moss Landing, CA
, this time feeding on a fresh
Gray Whale Calf Kill
. We were with a pod Orcas on Sunday that had recently killed a Gray Whale calf and were feeding on the carcass. They would bring the carcass up to the surface and take turns nudging it and taking bites out of it. Then they would take the carcass under the water and the carcass would vanish for about twenty minutes. We observed the females cruising the surface back and forth over the area where we would last see the carcass. There was also a very young Orca calf that still had it's yellowish "white patches". When some Orcas are born, their "white patches" are yellowish in color. They usually will turn white by the end of their first year. This was facinating behavior to observe. We were with the Orcas for over two hours! There were approximately two males, one very large and the other large, three females and two babies. WOO HOO!
Dorris Welch/Sanctuary Cruises' Marine Biologist, Moss Landing, Monterey Bay, CA
*
Nancy Black (Monterey Bay Whale Watch) reports that she saw the
(Transient orcas) CA51s
feeding on the freshly killed carcass of
a gray whale calf
this
morning
in Monterey Bay.
Alisa-Schulman Janiger, California Killer Whale Project, ACS/LA Gray Whale Cenusus and Behavior Project

