Orca Sightings for April 8, 2018
============================================================

Entry 1:
While many friends gathered today along the shores of Whidbey to gaze in awe, adopted member of J pod
L87 Onyx
was being his awesome self
off Langley
, Whidbey Island. -Photo by Chris Korrow,

Entry 2:
1641
- Viewing midchannel SB from
Possession Beach (Positive IDs J26, J36, J42, J50, J16, Along with J17s, J22s, J14s, & I believe J11s as well
) Updating from my ID comment yesterday. I believe I have a photo of J19 but cannot see the eyepatches or saddle. Did not have any photos of J41, J51, or (to my knowledge) J44. No ID photo of J39 but fairly sure that he's the blurry whale in the distance with
J31 and J27
. -Ariel Yseth
*

4:26 p.m. -
majority of
whales closer to Mukilteo/Lynwood sid
e. Looked like
J27 and L87
were traveling together. Mostly travel mode but some breaches. Tough conditions - blows are not visible in wind and whitecaps. Leaving Glendale.

4:08 p.m. -
they've arrived
Glendale
. Mid-channel. Calf double breach! -Debbie Stewart
*
J37 Possession Sound
. Wendy Berta Sines and I went out to find the whales today, and finally caught up with
J pod at the Clinton ferry dock and Glendale beach
from about

3:30 -
4:30
this afternoon. -Photo by Susan Berta, Orca Network,

Entry 3:
(
ID by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*

3:45 p.m. -
the Captain of the Kittitas ferry called, departing Clinton and surrounded by orcas! We were watching from up the hill, as the ferry went VERY SLOWLY out of the dock,
J pod spread out passing the Clinton dock
headed south in Possession sound. Icons of the Pacific NW: orca (possibly J26) and WS Ferry Kittitas. -Photo by Chris Korrow,

Entry 4:
(
ID by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*
Just standing on a ferry deck on a blustery day watching
J31
pass by. -Photo by Danielle Pennington,

Entry 5:
(
ID by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*
Southern Resident Killer Whale breaches near the east shore of Whidey Island.

3:00 p.m. - J Pod nearing Clinton
now from the North. -Photo by Steve Smith,

Entry 6:
*
Chris Korrow's pics of our close encounters with a
Gray Whale (I believe ID'd as #531) and orcas (JPod)
. Started at
Whale Bell Park
, where a large crowd was gathered watching JPod move south (
1:20pm) , we followed them the over to
Cascade Ave
lookout, then a group followed the pod down to the Clinton Ferry dock! Joined by lots of friends along the way! Thank you to Alisa Lemire Brooks and Orca Network and the LAngley Whale Center for their amazing siting network that makes it possible to track these beauties!!
J31
cruises past east end of Whidbey, backdropped by
downtown Everett to the east
. -Christy Korrow
*
J pod member exiting Saratoga Passage south of Langley
backdropped by Camano Head. -Photo by Allie Hudec,

Entry 7:
*

1:10 p.m. -
I'm viewing from 1 mile south of
Bells beach. Js spread across channel
in groups, some more Whidbey side, some more Camano side. Southbound with periods of intermittent milling. Long down times.
J51 and mom J41.
-Rachel Haight
(
ID by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*
What a whale of a weekend with Southern
Resident orcas off Whidbey Island
... With calmer weather conditions today we were fortunate to engage with members of J pod once again near Fox Spit, southbound in Saratoga Passage. There were numerous vigorous tail-slaps indicating that they were finding food followed by energized breaches, and for the most part the whales maintained their momentum slowing just occasionally for a spot of group socialization. With reports of transient orcas and
a humpback in the region
along with our regular Sounders (gray whales)
, we wondered how many other whales we might see. As it was we encountered Sounder #531 near Langley Marina heading north, but no sign of the transients. The last we heard was that
they had turned tail and left ahead of the fast approaching residents, as the two eco-types do not interac
t. There are few places in the world offering such diversity of wildlife, and the privilege of watching these iconic species in their natural environment.
J38, J45 and probably J27 or L87 on his back.
-Sandra Pollard, Author/Naturalist (Photo below by Richard Snowberger, crew, zoomed and cropped).
*
About
1:00 p.m. - Orcas South of Elger Bay
between Camano and Widbey Islands. Heading south-Southwest towards Everett. - Sean Meagher
*
What an amazing day on the water on the San Juan Clipper! We encountered
Gray Whale #383 near the SE side of Gedney/Hat Island
and saw him spyhop 3 times! Of course, I missed taking photos of them, except the end of one that's slightly out of focus. We left him as he cruised toward Everett, then met up with
J Pod in Saratoga Passage
! They were breaching like crazy, and again I only caught one, arrgh! But it was so good to see them again, we were even treated to a surprise close pass (engines were shut down).
J22 Oreo and J46 Star.
J44 Moby under the watchful eye of his mother, J17 Princess Angeline.
-Justine Buckmaster
*
Today's encounter was pretty awesome. We didn't have much time and weather wasn't the greatest, but it was the first time I have seen anything black and white aside from the combination of the two. Gray whales people, gray whales. First we encountered
#44 Dubnuck
and
#53 LP
hanging out together, then we headed north and found
Jpod as they foraged southbound
. The energy we saw from them when we first arrived was nothing short of amazing. I have never seen such explosive breaching in all my 12 years as a naturalist. Veterans of the area (as I am not) told me that that is how it used to be. It "used to be" because they had enough food and the time to be social and expend energy with little cost to their survival. Things have changed and they no longer have that luxury. With only 76 individuals, they are critically endangered. I am deeply saddened, but at the same time, I am holding out hope that they are finding enough spring "black-mouth chinook" (salmon that never go to open ocean) to keep their energy and social connections high.
J46 Star.

12:03 p.m. - Residents are southbound. Ts were on a kill so not any direction.

11:26 a.m - L87, J17s, J22s, J27, J47 and others (later included J16s).
We are leaving to head for another group further south now. -Renee Beitzel
*

11:07 a.m -
Seemed to have stalled and are milling.

11:02 a.m -
They are heading south. Some surface activity. Mid channel. Parallel with
Hidden Beach
now.

10:57 a.m -
You know you're having an awesome day when your photo of the grey whale gets photo bombed by an orca!

10:51 a.m. -
Seeing
orcas from Hidden Beach
with binoculars. -Danielle Pennington
*
J36 Alki
taking a peek around near the houses at H
idden Beach. J26, J16, & J50 following close behind. J42
present but submerged. -Photo by Ariel Yseth,

Entry 8:
(
J36 ID by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*

9:20 a.m - Saratoga Passage: Pod of Orcas heading south towards Race Lagoon
. -Randy Zimmerman Furnas
*

9:12 a.m - Orcas
headed south off
Harrington Lagoon
. Looks like 2 male, 3 females and possibly a juvenile? -Lauren Johnson
*

9:00 a.m. -
Just saw
6-8 orcas
making their way South through
Saratoga passage off of Harrington Lagoon
. -Peder Sunde
*

Entry 9:
T49A1 back with the family. Even mom (T49A)
got in on the fun. We left them about
7pm
headed towards
Turn Point. T49A5 and T49A1.
Makes me wonder if this reunion was the first time the two had met. As far as we know it is, but who really knows what went on over the winter and early spring? Only them. -Photo by Sara Hysong-Shimazu,

Entry 10:
2:20 p.m.
- Glacier Spirit has
Ts, 49C+others Marrowstone Point heading west
across north end of Marrowstone. -Christopher Hanke
*

Entry 11:
T137s -
2:40 p.m. -
(T137s) Going South behind barge, at distance. Watching from
Picnic Point
. There was a barge with sand going South, about mid-channel, maybe closer to Whidbey. A group of orcas was following it at a distance. I think 4 of them....Depending on the location perspective changes, and I am not a boater, so it was hard to say where exactly they were. But I hoped that barge could help those who watched from Glendale. -Nataliya Lisitsyna
*

1:45 p.m - Orcas passing Ivars in Mukilteo
, heading south. At least 3. (
T137s
). -Erin Elrod Birkenkopf
*

1:52 p.m. - they (T137s) are now south of the Mukilteo ferry lines moving south
. -Danielle Pennington

1:18 p.m. -
they are on a kill north of the ferry lanes. So much surface activity, splashing everywhere. (T137s)

1:10 p.m. -
they are relatively stationary. Still
north of the ferry land but drifting south
. A little more mid channel. A lot of surface activity.

12:44 p.m. -
They are still trending southbound. Very close to the mainland side. Just
passing the Everett marina
now.

12:29 p.m. -
I finally found them. They are heading south way on the mainland side.
North of Everett
still. -Danielle Pennington
*
The
Ts just south of Hat Island
are on a kill. ID'd as
T137s
by passenger on board Ariel Yseth. -Renee Beitzel
*

11:15 a.m - Orcas at Hat Island
...East of Hat, headed south. The whole family group together,
T137s
. 1 male and 2-3 others, spread.
T137 & T137B Possession Sound
. -Photo by Steve Smith,

Entry 12:
(gray) in Penn cove about
4:30
headed towards Captain Whidbey Inn. -Scott Smith
*

2:09 p.m - Grey whale
cruised by just offshore (
Langley
) as we were watching the orcas. -Marie Lincoln
*
Gray whale 531
cruised by
Langley
northbound as a large crowd gathered to watch
J pod heading south
. -Christy Korrow,

Entry 13:
*

1:05 p.m. -
3 blows seen headed north towards
Cama Beach
on Camano side.

12:40 p.m. -
watched
a gray surface
/blow several times before disappearing just 30'-40' off shore at
Camano Island State Park
headed north fast. -Shelly Greybeck
*

11:31 p.m. - gray
now feeding in front of
south end of Camano Island park
lower parking lot, saw it blow, it's back and tail as it was feeding. -GailDunbar
*

10:44 a.m - Grey whale feeding at Hidden Beach
in Greenbank right now. -Michelle Schrader Krater
*
Around

10:30 AM at Hidden Beach
, Whidbey Island.
2 grey whales
feeding right off shore. I've never been this close. -Photo by Danielle Pennington,

Entry 14:
*

10:35 a.m - 2 grays
right off
Hidden Beach
. Right off the beach! -Kari Habeck
*

10:31 a.m - Two grey whales
feeding right near the shore on
Hidden Beach
Drive on Whidbey. Slowly moving south. -Erin Paul Crafton
*

10:00 a.m -
there is now a g
rey whale off of Harrington Lagoon
, making its way South... great day for whale watching! -Peder Sunde
*

Entry 15:
Possession Sound
- The world-famous
gray whale #49, Patch
-- so-called for obvious reasons! -Photo by Steve Smith,

Entry 16:
*
What an amazing day on the water on the San Juan Clipper! We encountered G
ray Whale #383 near the SE side of Gedney/Hat Island
and saw him spyhop 3 times! Of course, I missed taking photos of them, except the end of one that's slightly out of focus. We left him as he cruised toward Everett, then met up with
J Pod in Saratoga Passage
! They were breaching like crazy, and again I only caught one, arrgh! But it was so good to see them again, we were even treated to a surprise close pass (engines were shut down). -Justine Buckmaster
*
Today's encounter was pretty awesome. We didn't have much time and weather wasn't the greatest, but it was the first time I have seen anything black and white aside from the combination of the two. Gray whales people, gray whales. First we encountered
#44 Dubnuck and #53 LP
hanging out together, then we headed north and found Jpod as they foraged southbound....-Renee Beitzel
*
Beautiful VIDEO by Lori Christoper taken at

7:45 a.m
this morning of
gray whale feeding
in the shallow coves just
south of Hat Island marina
. Individual is now working his/her way south.
(
ID'd as female
531
by Alisa Lemire Brooks
)
*
Humpback whale -

Entry 17:
humpback
) just in the opening to the breakwater off of
Anthony's in Edmonds
. I screamed in the restaurant freaking out my kids. About

10:40
. -Lisa Ann Harbison Anderson
*
We observed a
humpback whale
right off the Edmonds ferry terminal heading south in front of the

10:30 am
ferry as it was loading. Saw a couple brief surfaces and confirmed species with a good look at the dorsal fin. ..No photos, it was very choppy but happened to be right in front of the docked ferry. Yes irregular dorsal hump. -Adrianne Akmajian
*
Unidentified cetacean -

Entry 18:
5:58 p.m.
- Here is a
dolphin
for you!! Heading north along the shore just Northeast of
Raft Island toward Driftwood Cove
. It followed the shoreline then I lost site of it. Kind of choppy today...caught it on video though. -Melissa Ayn Pratt Meyer
(
Video sent to Dave Anderson, Cascadia Research: "I can't tell for sure either. One of the surfaces looked like it might have a more upright dorsal than the more curved fin of the bottlenose dolphins, and the dorsal seemed a little large for harbor porpoise, but there just wasn't enough resolution to be positive about any of it. Carr Inlet is a favorite hangout of the long-beaked common dolphins that have been down here, so I think that is most likely a common dolphin or a porpoise with a larger than normal dorsal fin, but I wouldn't count bottlenose out."
)

