Orca Sightings for September 20, 2019
============================================================

Entry 1:
15:12 - Orca pod at the Clinton Ferry
, pretty far out but lots of them! -Justin Goodwin'ON PM
*
J49 and J51 having a blast - J and K pod
whales surfing the cargo ship wake. -
J31 & J56 - K34 Cali breaching with Apple Tree Cove

Entry 2:
*
Youngest member of the
Southern Residents, J56 and her mom J31 Tsuchi passing northbound the shore of Mukilteo Lighthouse Beach

Entry 3:
20:04 -
Just now we witnessed what must have been
a large pod of orcas passing through saragoga passage heading north
. They were fairly spread out and because it was dusk, we were not able to count the number, but it was extensive! We're on
Breazy Point
, Camano Island....just north of Lowell Point. J Pod? How cool! It was interesting how spread out they seemed to be. It was dusk, so hard to see, but we could hear them from several different points at once. -Janett Wingett
*

18:30 -

19:30 - Sunset orcas Fox Spit last seen heading north up Saratoga Passage
. -Marilyn Armbruster
*
Littlest one
J56 swims Saratoga Passage at sundown
...and one of the largest...
L87 Onyx. Between Langley and Baby Island Heights
. "The lighting was amazing, the sunset was gorgeous, but nothing compared to hearing them breathe from every direction." -Photos by Dori Dace, Sep 20, 2019
*

19:00 - Orcas - At sunset
, saw what looked to be
a pod between Whidbey island and camano island
. -Robert Polasek
*

18:49 -
I guess you could say they found me...There were 20-30 of them. I've never seen anything like it.

18:35 -
I think I see the research skiff heading north. Any direction on the pod? (I'm north of them). -Bryan Hansen
*

18:38 - Pod coming in at East Point
now - too many to count - spread all the way across from Whidbey to Camano! Continuing to
trend north slowly
. Water is like glass. -Amy Smith Norris
*

18:09 - Resident Orcas. Close to shore
with the research skiff just
south of Fox Spit
. -Debbie Stewart
*

17:15 -

17:30 - Resident Orca male passing Sandy Point heading towards Langley
, pretty spread out south to north by at least 3 miles still
northbound
. -Marilyn Armbruster
*

17:05 - Resident Orcas. Boy and Dog Park in Langley!
We got whales! Surfacing, mid channel maybe closer to Camano. Whale bell ringing!! -Christy Korrow
*

17:02 - Resident Orcas
. Committed to Saratoga; there is a tight group of 4 mid channel
passing Langley marina
. Another spread out group Camano side with one research skiff. Relocating to Whale Bell Park in Langley for better views. -Amand Marie Colbert, Orca Network
*

16:45 - Resident Orcas
. Group
approaching Langley
. Still spread out. A couple of big breaches. Sweet sounds of Djangofest to accompany our shore-based experience! -Debbie Stewart
*

15:51 - Resident Orcas
. Trailing group just passing the
north end of the Clinton ferry dock continuing north
. Very spread out. -Danielle Pennington
*

15:00 -

15:45 - Southern Residents between Brighton Beach, Whidbey and Hat Island spread both sides. Foraging, and aimed north slow.
-Marilyn Armbruster
*

15:25 -
Viewing from
Bluff above Clinton ferry
. Several are definitely on the Whidbey side now still slowly
trending north
.

15:08 - Orcas mid channel north of Clinton ferry lane. Steady NB
. Can't tell which side they'll go up yet.

14:36 - Approaching Clinton ferry lane on Muk side. NB
-Donna George
*

15:56 -
over last hour watched leaders move along
Hat/Gedney heading east
. They appear to have gone around east side of Hat/Gedney then to the north. Others were following.
J31 and J56 backdropped by Hat/Gedney Island, Off Mukilteo backdropped by Clinton ferry dock, Whidbey Island. WS ferry veered wide while leaving Mukilteo terminal ahead of the orcas.

15:10- J31 Tsuchi with her baby daughter J56
(& maybe j39?) passed fairly close to
Mukilteo side
! Others steaming past mid and west if. They continued on northbound, stalled north of the Clinton/Mukilteo lanes, some breaching then stalled to forage. Others, males, and larger trailing group catching up.
Some continuing NE bound
.

14:28 - orcas approaching south end Mukilteo Lighthouse Park
. Others spread across channel. Sow steady northbound in super smooth glassy seas. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*
From Mukilteo Lighthouse park

Entry 4:
*

14:36 - More orcas still south of Glendale heading north.

14:18 - Orca. Lead group in line with Glendale. Heading north.
-Danielle Pennington
*

13:51 -
The residents are very much
north of the south end of Whidbey Island committed to Possession Sound
. Spread out continuing northbound.

13:30 - Large farily tight group is about to pass close by Possession Beach Park boat ramp
. Many other orcas are off SE Possession Point entering Possession Sound on Whidbey side. Others are spread to the south heading northbound. Viewing From high bluff Stamm Overlook, Edmonds.

13:17- Several of the Residents, including 2 males, are heading NE off South Whidbey
. Others further west, including adult male heading NE parallel to South Whidbey.

13:08 - I think most of the orcas are off South Whidbey, Cultus Bay/ Possession Point
. Some movement, but believe primarily stalled. NOAA researchers on scene now, Other research skiff (presumabley Mark Sears) is now leaving. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

13:50 - Resident Orcas
. East side mid channel now heading north most have passed
Possession Beach Park boat launch
.

13:20 - Resident Orcas. Viewing from Possession Beach Boat Launch Park
see one large male
northbound
. If I had to estimate, he's mid channel and out from Meadowdale and Possession Point entering Possession Sound northbound. -Marilyn Armbruster
*

13:49 - Resident Orcas
. For sure
at least 6
...Northbound Possession Point between east Whidbey and Mukilteo.

13:03 - Mid channel south of Whidbey. 3 orcas at least
...right now they are in the middle possibly coming towards me in Mukilteo. But they are kind of just staying put for the most part. -Alice Thuy Talbot
*

12:21 - Resident Orcas
. Watching from
Sunset Ave in Edmonds
can see them far off through binoculars between here and Point No Point and more
headed to the East
from there as well.
Resident orcas off Apple Tree Point, Kingston.
-Michelle Goll
*
Orcas ride wakes in Puget Sound -

Entry 5:
*

12:30 - The Resident orcas
have continued north towards South Whidbey.
Humpback is out from Edmonds transact Edmonds ferry dock & Eglon, Kitsap
mid channel. A trailing male orca did just pass northbound on west side of channel NW of the humpbacks location. If you are using Whale Watch boats to find orcas keep in mind they look at other animals and sight see, where they are doesn't always indicate where the orcas are.

11:23 - Arrive to see tight group of 4-6 Resident orcas between Kingston and Point Wells, Woodway maybe slightly east of mid channel. Others, at least another 4-6, trailing not far behind and a bit more west of them approx mid channel. All traveling medium pace northbound. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

11:05 - J pod and K13s spread out from Carkeek area to Kingston northbound
. -Bart Rulon, Puget Sound Express
*
L87 Onyx in Puget Sound

Entry 6:
*

10:45 - Resident Orcas. North of Faye Bainbridge now on East side of sound
. -Doug Hayman
*

10:40 - Resident Orcas. Spread out all the way across the sound from Jeff Head north bound
. -Neal McCulloch
*

10:20 - Resident Orcas
. At least one male and a couple of females straight east of
Fay Bainbridge mid channel easterly at steady clip
. Also male closer to Kitsap side. -Donna Green van Renselaar
*

10:20 - Resident Orcas. Viewing from Shilshole
currently, orcas still
moving North
..I counted five but I'm pretty sure there were more. They were moving at a steady pace.
K44 Ripple out from Shilhole.
-Natalee Bozzi
*

09:50 - Orca mid channel between West Point and Skiff Point. Spread out from Shilshole Bay across to Rolling Bay. Appear to be heading north
slowly. Still quite spread west and east across sound. -Matt McCulloch
*

9:17 - Resident Orcas. Watching from Sunset Hill (Ballard)
and there is a group spread out mid channel just
south of West Point Lighthouse
. Trending north slowly, but also lots of milling around...I left them around

9:45 and they were past West Point and still trending north slowly
scattered among the fishing boats. -Danielle Carter
*

09:15 - Resident Orcas
. From a friend who lives near
Eagle Harbor: Two males, two females heading north
at a steady pace. Already out of view from my house (Bill point). -Susan Marie Andersson
*

09:13 -
Milling around
north of the Bainbridge Island ferry lanes
. Scattered out well over a mile. -Paul Mooselips Dudley
*

9:34 - Just left them, but they are now visible from Rolling Bay, Bainbridge. Very spread out from east to west. Visible with the naked eye. Lots of foraging and breaching and surface activity.

09:13 - They are very close to the Bainbridge side now

09:04 - Resident Orcas. Viewing from Yeomalt on Bainbridge. One male spotted heading, east side of shipping lane. Update: 3-4 seen in this group so far. Chris Merritt
*

08:27 -
Hi there - I've got approx
7 orcas drifting N towards the Magnolia channel
. A couple around the orange buoy towards the N end of Bainbridge Island as visible from lower Queen Anne. Looks like two males, 4-6 females including a couple of young ones. Pretty sure J56 is in there. Have been some directional changes but the trend is definitely north and they are fairly spread out. -Katie Kirking
*

08:50 - Resident Orcas. Another group Bainbridge side north of ferry terminal northbound

08:37 - Resident Orcas. They are heading into the bay again. (Elliott)
.

08:28 - Resident Orcas. Slow moving ENE.
Appear to be heading out of bay (Elliott).

08:23 - I've got eyes on 5 to 7 individuals including J26 and L87
. Watching from Alki Ave, they are east northeast
heading North on the lip of Elliott Bay.
-Kersti Muul
*
~

08:25 - Orcas milling sort of far off shore from Alki
, West Seattle, as I rode the Water Taxi. Around
8:25am. -Suzanne Mager
*

08:01 - Orcas
again this morning! Seen from West Seattle over by the
southern tip of Bainbridge. Moving north
, but they might have been veering more Northeast. They started off just at the point where the Bremerton ferry passes Bainbridge at South Beach. Then, the last I saw them was around lighthouse point in West Seattle. From where I am, it's hard to tell the perspective of what piece of land they were closest to. -Jamie Lilly
*

07:15 -
Looks like there are
4-6 Orca north of the Fauntleroy ferry terminal
about a mile headed westish....And more spread out across the channel to Blake island. The fast ferry from Vashon is getting a good Morning! -Robyn Dally
*

Entry 7:
humpback whales first when a few Orca showed up and were identified as Southern Resident
Killler Whales (
Some of K Pod
) so we departed the area immediately and went off to some
Transients (T019's)
again right off
Sooke
! September continues to be our favorite time of the year for amazing encounters! -Paul Pudwell
*

Entry 8:
Orcas in Swartz Bay off the ferry to Tswwassen
not sure who they were. -Shauna Ringquist
(
Potentially
T041, T041A and kiddo
. They were around yesterday. April Ryan
)
*

Entry 9:
humpback whales
first when a few Orca showed up and were identified as Southern Resident Killler Whales (Some of K Pod) so we departed the area immediately and went off to some Transients (T019's) again right off
Sooke
! -Paul Pudwell
*

Entry 10:
12:30 - orcas have continued north towards South Whidbey.
Humpback is out from Edmonds transact Ferry dock to Eglon, Kitsap mid channel
. A trailing male Orca did just pass Northbound on west side of channel NW of humpback location. Last I saw humpback was aimed southbound but may be milling out there. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
I am glad to see this
Humpback
confirmation. While watching the orcas swim out of sight from
Edmonds i saw a whale much too large to be an orca!
-Sara Troyer
*

12:20 -
We are with the
juvie Humpback off Edmonds
now. All the orcas appear to be at Possession Bar now. -Bart Rulon
*

Entry 11:
~

18:45 - Spotted possibly a gray whale near Hood Canal Bridge
heading South closed to the Jefferson's side. -Estrella Isabela Reina
(
possibly one of the humpbacks who has been around - alb
)

