Orca Sightings for June 22, 2009
============================================================

Entry 1:
- Orca network received a call from Den McClure who saw
one orca
1 week to 10 days ago, in
Willapa Bay, WA
- in the lower bay near the entrance, eating seals.
*
Ken Balcomb of the Center for Whale Research encountered
J's K's and the L2's
off the west side of
San Juan Island
, in the early
evening
. The whales were spread out in groups traveling north.
Center for Whale Research
*
I watched
J-Pod
off of
Land Bank
and Lime Kiln on the west side of San Juan Island from about

3:30-
4:30
in the afternoon. They headed north very close to shore, then turned and started coming back south before veering to the west to meet in the incoming
K-Pod
. It was definitely one of those special passbys where most of the pod was just off the kelp beds, and onlookers got nice looks at all the J-Pod family groups!
Monika Wieland, San Juan Island
*
OrcaSound hydrophone, 1830:
First we heard mewing, like in
K-pod
, and then we heard S-1's as in J-pod. The whales were spread out and their blows drifted north in the southerly, backlit by the ever-so-slow setting sun - they were headed slowly north.
Val Veirs, San Juan Island
*
All the people on land, on the westside of
San Juan Island
enjoyed seeing
Orcas
swimming north, near shore, with the flooding tide, from about

3:30 to at least 4pm
. The whales were spread out from
Lime Kiln Point
south about a mile. All the boats appeared to maintaining the 1/2 mile from shore, no boat zone.
Caroline Armon, San Juan Transit & Tours
*
Between

1:10 and
1:45
a loose group of
orcas
passed SJI between
False Bay and Eagle Point
, moving East while hunting, zigzagging very seriously. They came by in a group of four (male, females, juvenile) followed by a group of 7 or 8, including two males and a very young orca.
Mary WillAllen, naturalist, The Whale Museum
*
Cool
orcas
off
SJI
today most of the day. First,
J pod
went down island on the ebb, then up island on the flood to
Lime Kiln
, with most of the pod making close passes to shore with lots of surface active behavior. As J1 and J2, among others, went north, most of the pod seemed to stall out around Lime Kiln, still with lots of surface activity. At the same time there were reports that K pod had passed Discovery Island and other reports further north had J1 and J2 disappearing. Minutes after J1 and J2 "disappeared," the orcas at Lime Kiln started heading at a fast pace off shore and towards Discovery. Within minutes J pod, including J1 and J2, were together making great time and distance against a strong flood tide. Several juveniles breached nearly continuously, until J pod met up with K pod and perhaps more than a few L's about a mile off
Hannah Heights
at around
5 p.m
. There were whales all over, with much active socializing. There appeared to be at least three groups of ten or more whales in close proximity, rolling all over each other, with much switching of whales (at least sprouters) between the groups. About half of K pod headed in close to the shore at Hannah Heights within 10 minutes of meeting up. At Hannah there was a good chop going on. The K pod whales appeared to be surfing, foraging and playing at the same time. A young calf (K42?) tried to copy the older whales and dove aggressively into a large wave before getting bashed sideways by the pretty good sized wave. The calf kind of wriggled like a fish, righted himself and continued on unabashed after his older brethren. As the flood tide began carrying the main group of orcas up island, the K pod whales that had been close in to the beach headed out and joined up with the main group. I left them just after
6 pm
still heading up island as a group. On another good note I think I have seen more socializing already this year, than all of last year which seemed to be a continual quest for food.
Sharon Grace, SJI
*
In the
afternoon
as the whales went north past
Lime Kiln
I was able to get a picture of
Gaia L-78
and
Wave Walker L-88
. I don't know if other L Pod whales were present with
J Pod and K Pod
, but it was interesting to see these whales with Js and Ks. I would imagine that their mom, Grace L-2 was there, but I didn't get a picture of her. L-2, L-78 and L-88 were seen with J and K pods on Monday
June 22nd as they all came south down Haro Strait.
Jeanne Hyde, San Juan Island
*
I saw
2 gray whales
off
West Beach
a little before
noon
. Looked to be an adult and a young one - could it be that a mom has brought her baby to Whidbey? They were a couple of hundred yards off-shore, and appeared to be heading SSW.
Jill Hein, Coupeville I have seen a minke whale out by swirl island, entrance to aleck bay, south Lopez Island. It has been moving around near the feeding seabirds.
Sheila Bishop

Entry 2:
Got to finally catch up with
J pod
off Lime Kiln on Monday
evening
. They started coming by around

17:15
or so. I believe we got to see them all. They were fairly vocal as they swam by, Bob Otis had his radio out there with the hydrophones so we could hear them calling. Was a very windy time out there and the only boats were a couple watches out of Canada. The boats were so far out there, as the pod was very spread out. Take care!
Vickie Doyle, Kent, WA
*
Steve Hetler called in a real-time report at

9:30Pm
, of at least
four orcas
moving east, upriver about a quarter mile from the jetty at the mouth of the
Siuslaw River in OR
. He said there are many seals in the river.
*
Center for Whale Research received a report from Soundwatch of 40 plus whales traveling south from East Point on Saturna Island, B.C. at
12:25 p.m. At

2:00 p.m.
Center staff Erin Heydenreich, Emma Foster and Basil Von Ah encountered
J's and K's
in mixed tight groups traveling at a fast pace southwest through Boundary Pass (48째 43.930 N; 123째 09.584 W). The whales continued to travel past Turn Point and spread out across Haro Strait (48째 36.568 N; 123째 14.784W). All members of J and K pod were confirmed present as well as the L2's and L87. The rest of L pod reportedly went west in the Strait of Juan de Fuca earlier that morning.
Center for Whale Research
*
We spotted some whales travelling along the shores of
Point Roberts
, as they occasionally do when in the area. Initially, just a few whales were seen, then offshore, we started to see more fins. The whales were spread out over an area that was several square miles. They were travelling alone, or in very small groups, slowly drifiting with the tide, with no obvious direction of travel, and often doing long dives. We were fortunate to observe
K26 (Lobo)
spending some quality time with younger brother
K42
, even doing some side-by-side foraging. Further out in the Strait, we encountered
J1 and J2
. At one point, J1 lunged, presumably after a fish, and following that, J2 (Granny) breached twice - one a forward arch, and then one standard up in the air breach. Our passengers were so impressed when they heard that she may be approaching 100 years of age and still had that kind of energy and flexibility. Surprisingly, vocals were very sparse, and with almost no boat traffic, we would have been able to hear them for miles.
Joan Lopez, Naturalist, Vancouver Whale Watch
*
Jeff Hogan reported
Js, Ks & some L's
(at least L2 & L87) off the west side of
San Juan Island
.
*
2 days in a row of
all three pods
of Southern Residents! At
1500
, we observed the whales making the turn around Turn Island, and they really started pouring on the speed as they headed down Haro Strait. First came members of J Pod. We observed J1 Ruffles, J2 Granny, J30 Riptide as they porpoised past the boat. Then came a mixture of J's & Ls. I heard that there were members of K Pod as well, but I didn't observe any from our location. As they are known to do, as the whales made their way south, they began to spread out in smaller matriline groups. At
1600
, the whales were approaching
Kellett Bluff
.
John Boyd (JB), Marine Naturalist, Western Prince, Friday Harbor
*
All of
J-Pod
with some
L's and K's
porpoising, power swimming, against the strong flood tide, from Saturna Island southwest across
Boundary Pass
toward Stuart Island, from

2:20pm to
3:25pm
. They were traveling quite fast, in tight knit family groups. As we watched the first group approach Turn Point and the tide rips, one whale spy hopped, then 2 in unison, then the breaches started. There were 4 to 5 orcas in each group, 8 groups total, in that time period, heading around the point into Haro Strait. In every group, whales spy hopped, breached, lunged, cartwheeled, back flipped, pectoral slapped, or tail lobbed as they closed in on Stuart Island! Words can't describe the fantastic, countless breaches, percussive and surface behaviors!! Even J-1 Ruffles joined the party and breached!
Caroline Armon, San Juan Excursions
*
At

17:58
I can hear whales at
Orca Sound hydrophone
.
Celia Barroso
*
They're there again (orcas on
OrcaSound
) right now -

5:08pm
!
Ruby Keefe, Culver City, CA
*
Heard some GREAT orca calls on the
OrcaSound
hydrophones beginning at about

4:30 pm
, then at

5:43 pm
on the
Lime Kiln Hydrophone
, so they must have been heading south along the west side of San Juan Island.
Susan Berta, Orca Network, Whidbey Island
*
Hearing our friends at

12:17am
on the
orcasound
hydrophone!
Ruby Keefe, Culver City, CA
*
Sounds like party time for the 'Superpod boys and girls' right now at
12 .15am
on the
Orcasound hydrophones
.
Marie O'Shaughnessy, Victoria B.C.
*
The return from Northern waters started at

9:07 AM
off the
Tsawassen Coal Doc
k with some great breaching and ended at

10:24
with the last ones passing the Lighthouse Marine Park.
Peter Hamilton, LifeForce, Pt. Roberts
*
Orca Network received a call from Bonnie McKee reporting a pod of
orcas
in
Admiralty Inlet
, off
Bush Pt
. at

1:40 pm
. She had observed at least 2 females so far, they appeared to be heading north. We headed down to Bush Pt, arriving at

2:25 pm
- by then they had crossed the Inlet, & were swimming north against the tide. Looked like 6-7 total, but no ID's as they were on the other side; possible Transients?
Susan Berta & Howard Garrett, Orca Network, Whidbey Island
*
I'm hoping for some clarification on which whales I saw today from the beach at Libby Road around
9.45 am
. I did not have binoculars with me, but our walking group observed a couple of boats idling followed by spouts from
two whales
. I watched for an hour as we walked to Hastie, and these whales were making steady progress towards Anacortes. At times there only seemed to be one, and more than once I saw a dark shape and a 'fountain' like blow
Sandra Pollard, Freeland, Whidbey Island
This sounds like the 2 Grays that have been off NW Whidbey lately

