Orca Sightings for July 6, 2008
============================================================

Entry 1:
J and K pod
, as well as
a few L's
, were encountered off False Bay on the west side of San Juan Island (48째 27.385 N, Start Long: 123째 05.682 W) at

10:30 a.m.
The whales were spread out milling and traveling slowly north. The newest member of K pod, K42, was traveling tight with it's family group: K14, K26, and K36. The encounter ended just north of False bay (48째 29.264 N, 23째 07.654 W) at
1:14 p.m. with the whales still traveling slowly northbound and close to shore.
Report & Photos at
Center for Whale Research
.
*
Often, someone will pick up the Southern Residents as they head back in from the Pacific Ocean, so it was surprise to hear this morning that orcas were off the west side of San Juan Island. It turned out to be
J-Pod, K-Pod, and L7, L53, and L57
. They did the "west side shuffle" for much of the day, and at
8 PM
J-Pod and the few Ls were northbound in Haro Strait while K-Pod was southbound from Lime Kiln Lighthouse. While Ks were moving pretty quickly south, one whale had time to do a spyhop in the sunset.
Monika Wieland, San Juan Island
*
Looks like
orcas
on orcacam right now. Just saw a great breach!

7:38pm
.
ruby keefe
*
Well, the whales last were seen around these parts on Thursday,
July 3rd. And to make up for being gone,
J's brought K's & L's
with them too! On our
morning
trip, we had one of those rare, magical encounters that really make you pause for a minute and reflect on how fortunate we are to have wild orcas in our area. Most of the whales and boats were near False Bay, and as we rounded Cattle Point, Captain Ivan noticed a few whales closer to the Salmon Bank marker. So we slowly made our way over and were pleasantly surprised to find a very active group of whales playing in a tide rip. We had some J's, K's and L57 Faith in a very boisterous, rollicking group. They were spyhopping dozens of times, and a few times we saw whales "swimming" sideways (well, being pushed sideways!) And in the tradition of the whales in the late 90's that were coming to the surface with salmon on their rostrums, we had one juvenile surface with a chunk of wood balanced on his rostrum! This whale stayed on the surface for nearly five minutes, carefully balancing his "toy" as other whales played around him. We had the hydrophone in the water and with our engines off, all you could hear were the underwater vocalizations complemented with several surface vocals, and the constant blows of the whales at play. So there we were, all by ourselves and just when this naturalist of many years had thought he'd seen just about everything, I saw the most amazing and unusual spyhop of my career (so far anyway). Two whales came to the surface, but only one was spyhopping head-first! The other one was coming upside down and matched the other whale for height out of the water! I can't imagine how much effort that took to use the pectoral fins to hold the tail so high up! It was amazing.
For our
afternoon
trip, we once again encountered J's, K's, and L's just about the same place as the morning trip. This time the whales were a bit more spread out, with the leaders up near Hannah Heights, and the trailers still around South Beach. Whales were spread in smaller groups by this time, and we had the incredible good fortune to get to see K16 and her new calf K42! The little "guy" (or gal) was very boisterous, and was keeping up with mom with no problems, We even saw a small breach by K42. It is so great to see all the whales so active. In the evening, as the sun started to head down, I heard that some of the L's were still down south of the island, and K-Pod was heading past Lime Kiln near 8 PM, and J's were heading north past Battleship with L53 & L57 hanging out with them.
John Boyd (JB), Marine Naturalist, Western Prince
*
Spent the day at the south end of San Juan island at Eagle Cove. had
J pod?
(likely w/K's & some L's - see above reports - sb) Around all afternoon until about

5:00 pm
, very spread out.
Tim Shearer
*
We spent a beautiful and sunny Sunday afternoon with the
Orcas
! We were all so excited to hear that our local resident killer whales had returned after their 2 day stint out in the Pacific Ocean! We left Friday Harbor and went out towards the south end of the island heading out into the waters where Haro Strait meets the Strait of Juan de Fuca and that's where we saw them!! Originally we just heard the J-Pod and K-Pod were seen - no confirmed sightings of L-Pod. We were quite surprised that our first look was of L-57 (Faith) - a big male with a very large dorsal and an unidentified female, hanging out offshore. Interestingly they were both going on long dives of 5-10 minutes!! We then repositioned to another spot and got great looks of J-27 (Blackberry, a 17 year old male), his younger brother J-39 (Mako, a 5 year old male) and who we think was their mom J-11 (Blossom). Moving inshore towards San Juan Island there were more Orcas changing direction. Then surfaced K-14 (Lea) with her brand new baby K-42, and older brother K-26 (Lobo, who at 15 years old is getting to be a large male). We got a great view of J-16 (Slick) and her 1 year old female, J-42, and another small calf who she seemed to be baby-sitting. J-16 even did a few spy hops to take a look around!
Jaclyn Van Bourgondien, naturalist, San Juan Safaris
*
We received reports from Beam Reach of
orcas
off SW San Juan Island, beginning at

12:04 pm
, NW of False Bay, west San Juan Island (Latitude:48.4787, Longitude:-123.1084); with the last report at
3:21 pm off American Camp, SW San Juan Island (Latitude:48.4397, Longitude:-123.0201).
Beam Reach
*
I encountered a group of at least 6 to 8 Dall's Porpoise off the northern tip of Cooper Point in Budd Inlet at the mouth of Eld Inlet on Sunday,

Entry 2:
12:30. They seemed to be milling about going in various directions. I did not see the characteristic "rooster tail" splash, but through binoculars I could clearly make out the white patch on the back of the dorsal fin. When last seen about
12:45 they appeared to be entering Eld Inlet. Thanks,
Don Noviello
*
Efforts to save an entangled young
humpback
whale were started on 5
July 2008 off Sekiu, Washington. The whale was reported earlier in the day and a response by Makah Fisheries and Cascadia Research in collaboration with NOAA were initiated. The young animal that was the size of a calf (but no mother present) and had multiple crab lines attached around the pectoral fin, mouth and trailing back to the fluke had scars indicating it had been entangled for quite some time. Efforts on 5 July were successful in attaching some marker floats and a tracking radio tag but were unable to free the lines close to the body of the whale, essential for the survival of the whale.
Update from 6
July 2008: Unfortunately, overnight some fishermen encountered the entangled whale and saw the trailing marker buoys we had attached and removed them thinking this would help the whale. This still left the whale entangled as before but eliminated our ability to track the whale and work with it more easily on 6 July. We had difficulty locating the whale although we did sight it once early in the morning but lost it near Slip Point. After unsuccessfully searching for the whale the rest of the morning, we suspended efforts pending new sightings of the whale and improved conditions. Any sightings of the animal are encouraged to contact Cascadia (1-800-747-7329) John Calambokidis, Cascadia Research More photos at Cascadia Research website
NOAA Fisheries had received a call on
June 30th of a possible entangled whale north of Waldron Island, heading west. The species of the whale was not known, but it was trailing orange crab pot floats, so was possible an earlier sighting of this humpback - but no further reports of an entangled whale came in until this whale was observed near Seiku - S&H

