Orca Sightings for August 27, 2011
============================================================

Entry 1:
Carrie Newell reported observed
one or two Blue whales
in 220' of water
off Depot Bay
OR.
*
Saw
10 orca
just
west of Squaxin Island at
8:30 am
. They were headed north and were playing.
Michael and Sally Brick
*
5pm
- we saw
about 5 Orca
playing just off the
mouth of Oro Bay, Nisqually/Anderson Island
. They looked like they were heading south to Olympia, around the sound end of Anderson. They looked like they were just heading somewhere.
Doug and Donna Hogeberg
*
There was
a pod of orcas in Case Inlet
, about a mile south of the entrance to Vaughn Bay, maybe half a mile south of 47 deg. 20 " N. We could not count accurately. We watched them, from land,
from about
1:45 to
2:30 pm
. You probably had a lot of reports, as at one point there were 13 boats watching. I would like to know who they were, transients or residents. (Most likely transients.)
Paul Kellogg
*
My neighbor saw a pod at the
northern entrance to Budd Inlet
yesterday. Haven't seen them since, but we've enjoyed seeing a couple of bottlenose dolphins in the inlet for a couple of weeks.
Rob Penney
*
We sighted a number of
orcas in Case Inlet
. There appeared to be a total of
at least eight
and to include a couple of calves and also perhaps a couple of males. They worked their way up Case inlet by Stretch Island to about the town of Allyn. They then worked their way south and appeared to be
heading down Pickering Passage
. All of this over about a four hour period. From what we could tell from our vantage point the boaters were respecting the animal's space.
Tom Richards
*
Around
midday; 3 Orcas
- One larger than the others (bigger dorsal);
Bainbridge Island, WA
; off south side of island on Rich Passage - near Fort Ward State Park; Headed east back into sound; most likely transited from north down around west side of island (through Agate Passage); Latitude, Longitude: 47.58460, -122.52760; Activity: slowly transiting area - coming up for air every minute or so; sea lions & harbor seals frequently spotted in this area; harbor seals pupping nearby; lost track of them as they approached offshore salmon farm enclosures & small rocky island on SE point of Bainbridge Island, like they submerged for a long period. Apparently sightings in the location are rare. A neighbor, who's lived here for 10 yrs, has only spotted one orca during those 10 yrs. Oddly enough, she told us this the day before our sighting. It was amazing!!
Scott & Julia Stewart
*
We saw them again the next day (Saturday) at

11:30am
when we were out on our sailboat. All three together again. Once again the male was close to one of the females and the other female seemed to be following behind. They were out in front of
downtown Port Orchard
heading towards the Bremerton shipyard.
Doug Miller
*
Pod of nine Orca whales
seen
in Case Inlet
. Many boats followed the whales and observed them for hours. I was on land too far away to see to identify even though I had binoculars. They sure seemed to be having fun.
Susie Cover
*
Grapeview Washington
-
10+ orcas
sighted on Saturday morning.
*
Here are a couple photos of the
orcas
that were near
Bremerton
. It was amazing seeing them patrolling the bay! A group of transient orcas, or killer whales (Orcinus orca) swim back and forth near several uneasy sea lions, in front of the Bremerton Naval Station, near Seattle, Washington.
William Byrne Drumm.
*
I've attached some photos taken Saturday
late afternoon
, beginning at the entrance of
Hammersley Inlet
during the incoming tide. It was a group of perhaps 6 who were splashing/tail slapping from the entrance to just past Cape Horn, after which they all seemed to become focused on heading
towards Shelton
in unison. Later that evening, what appeared to be the same number were heading north through
Pickering Passage
, between Squaxin Island and Hungeford Point, towards the Harstin Island Bridge, grouped in a line on the outgoing tide.
Jules Michel
*

9:00 AM - Pod of 7-8 Orcas
sighted on
Pickering Passage
, North of the Hartstene Island bridge. They traveled north into
Case inlet past Stretch and Treasure islands
toward Allyn. Appeared to be 1-2 calves and one larger male with a grey patch/marking behind the dorsal. The group appeared to be feeding (salmon? - the run to the hatchery at the head of Case inlet may be coming through), lots of tail slapping, breaching and rolling around.
Tim Thomsen
*
I saw many boaters stopping in their tracks to see the
Orcas
. My family also saw the whales surface for many hours throughout the morning. We live on high bank waterfront on
Bainbridge Island
a mile south of Fletchers Bay with views a
cross Port Orchard Bay to Brownsville Marina, Kitsap Co
. I went down to the beach for an early morning row on Saturday. I was standing in ankle deep water at

7:01am
. The sun had not yet reached the water surface. All was very quiet. The water was like glass. I counted
three Orca
s surface and breathe. The second I heard the inhale and exhale there was no doubt I was visited by a very large mammal. The six foot tall dorsal fin confirmed it for me The largest of the three I estimate was 25 feet long Maybe bigger. Big enough I had no interest in rowing over for a closer look. I left well enough alone and had a wonderful long row.
John Christiansen
*
3-4 transients
came a-visiting to
Boiling Reef
(located just off East Point on Saturna Island). I'm told the male in the group was
T19B
although I haven't confirmed that yet. Anyway, this is the bull in the group. He is bearing down on a clump of kelp in the foreground where a seal is hiding (or attempting to). You can see its head and back flippers. I don't know the outcome because I got distracted by a female transient that came back to see what T19B was doing. I didn't even know there was a seal in the shot until I looked at it on my laptop later that evening! However, I'm guessing it did not end well for the seal.
Valerie Shore
*
Just letting you know that there were
three transient orca whales around Snake Island, just off Nanaimo
, at approx
10am
. They circumnavigated the small island, which is famous for lots of seals. Looking at the fin markings, they are transient family
T10 female 'Langara', T10B male 'Siwash', and T10C juvenile 'Bones'
. They were there for 15 minutes, then swam back out into Georgia Strait (maybe the incoming ferry noise made them leave?) We did not see them make a kill.
Shana Semrick
*
Between 3 and 4 p.m.
- saw
approximately 20 orcas
including one calf off
Brook's Point, South Pender Island
. They were spread out, doing tail flips looking for food. They turned and headed back towards the San Juan Islands.
Gloria Hockley
*
We were boating in the San Juan Islands and
near Roche Harbor
. We decided to head south to Friday Harbor around
3pm
and encountered an amazing number of
Orcas
. I'm not kidding when I say there must have been
30+ Orcas
- they were every where!! They were of all sizes and different size fins. It was impossible getting around them. Just when you thought you were out of their way, boom - more Orcas!!! Many of them were tail slapping and breaching. They made their way
from the north of the Islands to Friday Harbor
and continued south.
Scott Zaffram
*
Two pods L & J went through San Juan Channel
at approximately

3:00 PM
, porpoising and breaching right
through the mouth of Friday Harbor
, A sight to behold.
Mack J. Davis
*
The
orcas
were heading south
into Budd Inlet
. They almost immediately turned around and headed back out,
between
8:20 and
8:28
. I saw them by Cooper Point, heading north in front of the lighthouse at Boston Harbor. There were adults and young. They never surfaced at the same time so I couldn't get the numbers of all of them. I did see
at least 6
at the same time while looking through binos. There were "large" ones leading the pod - and my husband, Scott, said they were bulls. Scott counted at least 8. My neighbor counted at least 10.
Kim Merriman
*
A group of
at least six whales
came through
Hamersley Inlet to Oakland Bay around
5:00 PM
. They were moving pretty quickly through the area, sounding for 20 minutes at a time. They look to be female with some young, no large dorsal fins. They headed north into Oakland Bay.
Donna Squires
*
At least 6 orcas
headed north in
pickering passage
this
morning
, came back at about
3PM
headed south swimming in two separate groups.
tom everhart
*
Just now -

3:12 pm
- they're at Indian Cove (Harstene) headed south down
Pickering Passage
. And that entourage of boats is still following them.
Ruby Luby
*
North end of
Case Inlet
opposite the Vaughn Bay sandspit,

1:15 p.m
. (don't know how long they had been there, but there were a large number of small boats gathered). Saw adult male, adult female, juvenile. Activity: play (showing off for boats?) Last seen

1:30 p.m.
heading south.
Judy Watt
*
1pm
- Just saw a couple
Orcas
eastound off of
Bremerton
just past ferry terminal.
Jack Worthington
*
We saw a group of
at least eight Orcas
, at
11 am
, at the north end of
Pickering Passage
. They were very close to the shore at the foot of Rauschert Road and then headed northeast into
Case Inlet
.
Ruby Luby
*
Around 11 am
, there was a group of
at least eight killer whales
directly off our beach. Latitude: 47.30594 by Longitude: - 122.84319. They seemed to be showing off? Jumping around and splashing with their tails and fins. There were several boats following them as they headed north / northeast
into Case Inlet
toward North Bay. Very exciting for me to see this!
-Roberta Lubetich
*
Well it happened to me again. I am on
the west side of Bainbridge
at our family place. This
morning
I hosted a neighborhood meeting in our front yard to talk about restoring our clam and oyster population on this shoreline. Had about 30 neighbors here also Betsy Peabody, county health officials etc. Just as I was thanking people for coming a lady interrupted me and said, there is an orca behind you. Sure enough. We looked out and
4 or 5 Orcas swam north and then back south
.
Ralph (Munro)
*
I was out kayaking off
West side of Bainbridge island
and was passed by
an adult orca and two small orcas
around

10:45 AM
David Jones
*

10:34am
-
Two groups of three orcas
in each group were reported in
Case Inlet
for 45 minutes accompanied by several boats and a kayak.
*

10:15am
- a caller reported
five orcas
headed north in
Case Inlet
at the north end of the west side of Harstene Island.
*
Ocras
traveling from
Hartstene Point to Allyn
, WA @
1005
.
Bob & Pat Twigger
*
A lively group of
5-6 breaching, spyhopping orcas
frolicking this morning - saturday about
8- am
, heading north. Same pod?, this time 8-9 heafing south on
Pickering Passage
about 4-430.
Edie Kroha
*
This morning at
6AM
,
three orca
were seen and heard blowing and swimming north
in Port Orchard by toward Keyport and Agate pass
. There is a big orca, a medium sized one and one little one. Not a baby but significantly smaller.
Sylvia Davis Poff
*
Hydrophone reports

6:14 PM
- Lots of boat/ship noise but the
Orca
are there in the background I can hear as well a see them on the Sonogram/SA....

5:56 PM
- Lots of ranging/clicks --- grunts - vary little in the way of
calls
...

5:21 PM

5:19 PM

4:53 PM

7:38 PM
-
Orca calls
off in the distance..
Robo
*
It was easy, maybe too easy, finding killer whales today. We headed up north from Friday Harbor, and
just east of Spieden Island
we encountered
both K and L pods
. They were everywhere around us! Breaching, spy hopping, and tail slapping. After watching them for a while, we headed back south towards Cattle Point and we headed back into the harbor we encountered the killer whales again! And they were still being super active! We saw at least six more breaches. I was also able to identify
Mega from L-pod
.
Kristen, Naturalist, San Juan Safaris
*
1042 - Orcas
heading up island from
Pile Point
, I think I see
Mega L41
!!
Melisa Pinnow

