Orca Sightings for April 15, 2011
============================================================

Entry 1:
Orcas
travelling through
Sansum Narrows
for 3 days in a row:
April 15, 16 and 17, 2011. I wrote you about the amazing encounter with 31 Transients who stayed in our area for at least 7-8 hours Friday. (Graeme Ellis identified them). Saturday I did not go out to see them. Sunday afternoon between
2 - 4 PM
I went out in the whaler with 2 young friends from Victoria, and we watched a small group (probably 8) feed in Sansum Narrows. Every encounter is amazing! I took lots of photos and will burn a CD for Graeme Ellis so he can identify them. Simon Pidcock thought they were 49A's and B's and one other. They MUST have been feeding as they were here for over 2 hours, but again, I never saw a kill or evidence of a seal being eaten. However the gulls were flocking over certain areas and seemed to be picking up bits of meat, so who knows? I have seen the whales so rarely the past 2 decades here in Sansum Narrows that I am not trained to identify the whales nor be an accurate judge of their behaviour!
Tamar Griggs, Bold Bluff, Salt Spring Island, BC
*
There was a pod of
orcas
heading north. We spotted them off of the Beach Gardens,
Powell River BC
around

3:40 pm
but way out there. At least 6, including one very large male from what we could see through the scope. They looked to be feeding, disappearing for 5 minutes or so and then reappearing in same area. A couple of spy hops from the smaller whales then they slowly headed north, so I texted my friend and she spotted them off the 5 pm ferry to Vanc. Island "close enough to touch".
Margaret
*
We have spotted several
porpoises
( porpi/porpii ?) - on Saturday 4/16 - & again - yesterday - Sunday 4/17...
mid-morning
krooozin' along off of the
Greenbank
bluffs - near downtown Greenbank.
Wayne & Lynn Flaaten, Downtown Greenbank, Whidbey Island, WA
*
Joan and I were walking the dogs last evening at the west end of Penn cove and watched approximately
75 Male California Sea Lions
. They would all be on the surface and then ALL dive at the same time for about 60 seconds. This activity was repeated over and over. I wonder where they are hauling out? They have to rest and sleep somewhere. The family up at the Arnold Farm said they hear them barking all night long.
Matt and Joan Klope, and Jack and Buddy and Lilly-belle and Paco, Oak Harbor, Whidbey Isl. WA
*
Between
3 and 5 pm
saw a young
gray
feeding 80 feet offshore, between
Pt No Pt Lighthouse and Hansville
store. We estimate his length at about 25 feet. Over a two hour period he moved up and down the beach leisurely feeding.
Janice Ceridwen, Hansville, WA.
*
At about

3:00 p.m
. - a
gray whale
was spotted - heading south in
Saratoga Passage
- betwixt Greenbank and the State Park boatramp on Camano Island (closer to Camano Island).
Wayne & Lynn Flaaten, Downtown Greenbank, Whidbey Island, WA
*
At least two
greys
in
Possesion Sound
about half way between the Everett Marina and Hat Island at about

11:30am
. We saw them from the boat but did not get close enough to see any markings. We saw one or two spouts and then they disappeared.
Adriaan Wakefield
*
We spotted
two grays
just south of
Gedney/Hat Island
around

10:15
. They were heading south at first, then turned toward Clinton. One was definitely
#383
(several passengers got good pictures of flukes to confirm). The other was probably
#22
, but that's based on only one picture that wasn't at an ideal angle. I also spotted a single gray at the mouth of
Holmes Harbor
as we passed around

2:30 pm
, a little ways NE of Baby Island.
Stephanie Raymond, Naturalist, Victoria Clipper III
*
This superpod of
transients
is great! We found them just north of east point on
Saturna Island
and they were playing with a sea lion for a while and then there was a lot of social interaction and a lot of vocalizing! Weather and whales were perfect, couldn't ask for a better first day. Here are a couple pictures.
Gary Sutton, Wild Whales Vancouver, B.C.
*
Tamar Griggs of Bold Bluff Retreat,
Salt Spring Island, B.C.
called to report that the
Transient orcas
were back in Sansum Narrows again for several hours. She said they had been ID'd as the T46's by Simon Pidcock.
*
Approximately
12-15 orca
were at the mouth of
Fulford Harbour
. I assume that they are residents (but more likely the large group of
Transients
that has been in the area the past 3 days). There were several juveniles and perhaps one very small one. They arrived at around

7:15 am
and left around

8:00 am.
They came into the bay on the west side of
Russell Island
went further into the bay and went out on the east side of Russell. They are currently headed southeast. I live on the west side of the bay across from Russell Island on Roland Road. I am checking whether I can spot them way out between Pender and us, but I haven't seen them yet. They may go around the point toward Active Pass or?
8:41 am: I just spotted them out in the channel between
Pender and Salt Spring
. They seem to be south of Beaver Point on Salt Spring. While they were in the harbour, they seemed to be eating - not frenzied, just slow easy swimming, sometimes turning, relaxed.
Susan Thorpe MacLeod, Salt Spring Island, B.C.
*
After receiving the call from Connie Barrett, Howard went to the bluff and found the
2 gray whales
feeding just under us in north
Greenbank
, Whidbey Island from

5:30 to
6:15
, sometimes within 30 feet of a row of beach houses on Hidden Beach. Then they moved south toward Holmes Harbor, stopping a few times to gulp some more on the way.
Howard Garrett, Orca Network, Whidbey Island, WA
*
Connie Barrett of Camano Island called at

5:15 pm
to report they were watching
two Gray whales
feed over off
Whidbey Island
, at Hidden Beach just north of Greenbank, moving slowly south.
*
~11 am: Grey's
spotted just south of
hat island
by Victoria Clipper III.
Don Heminger
*
About

10:45 am
watched some blows just north of
Clinton
(s. Whidbey Island). Saw 2 blows appear about the same time more than once, so suspect
2 grays
traveling together, Seemed to be moving south toward ferry.
Mary Dulin

Entry 2:
About

6:00 PM
this evening along the west side of
Orcas Island
. They are the
T49As, the T49Bs, the T75Bs and T75C.
..They made several seal kills and perhaps one sea lion today. Lots of little mouths to feed. And there were reports of many more over near Salt Spring Island.
Capt. Jim Maya, Maya's Westside Charters, San Juan Island,WA
*
Graeme Ellis of Canada's Dept. of Fisheries and Oceans called in a report of his encounter with the large group of
Transients
in
Sansum Narrows and Ladysmith Harbor, B.C.
. They had a total of about
31 orcas
, IDs include the
T100s, T36s, T20 & T21, T124s, T65As T90s, T99s, T137s, T87s and T37s
. They found them in Swanson Channel after we got the call from Tamar Griggs, then followed them down as they went into and back out of Ladysmith Island, and left them around 7 pm up by
Yellow Pt.
*
Hunting
transients
off of
yellow island
! They were very surface active with short dive times, tail slapping, and even a juvenile in the mix. At least 9, maybe more.
Laura, Naturalist, San Juan Safaris, San Juan Island
*

8:00-

8:30
- the dive boat Magician spotted
6-8 OFFSHORE type killer whales
feeding on fish. They were mid-Channel, about 10 miles off of the
Los Angeles Harbor
entrance, last seen heading slowly east.
Alisa Schulman-Janiger, California Killer Whale Project, ACS/LA Gray Whale Census Project
*
Robin Llewellyn
of
Greenbank
called Orca Network Friday morning to report a sighting of several fins on smaller marine mammals in Saratoga Passage, from her description we believe she was watching Harbor porpoise.
*
About an hour ago (~
8 pm
) a friend on my facebook says she was on the
thetis
ferry seeing
killer whales
!
E.J. Christiano
*
Just saw (
~
7:40 pm
)
a male 2 females and some young orcas
feeding at
Bear Pt Chemainus Is
from the ferry.
John McKenzie
*
Small group of
Orcas (5-8)
of off
Point Doughty
on
Orcas Island
about

6:30
this evening, heading north.
Dimitri Stankevich
*
5 pm
- a small group
(4-6) Orcas
swam into
Ladysmith Harbour
, made a short tour and headed out again. Last seen at

6:30 pm
heading into Stuart Channel.
Larry Paley
*
6.00 pm
- my almost apoplectic with excitement mother, Doreen Semmens, called from
Ladysmith, Vancouver Island
, to report seeing '...
orcas
popping up off Transfer Beach all over the place in groups of twos and threes...' from the comfort of home. No time to get down to the beach to take photos in case they disappeared (which they did while I was talking to you). They headed in the direction of Coffin Point, and seems you already had this unusual event of a 'transient superpod' logged with researchers on the scene. Mum had a great Happy Hour!
Sandra Pollard, Freeland, Whidbey Island, WA
*
Across
Ladysmith Harbour
from Saltair I think,
5 Orcas
- 2 adults, 3 young ones heading in toward Ladysmith at

5:30 pm
.
Jane Avis
*
Whales were spotted at
Cattle Pass
at about
9 a.m.
The whales were the
T49As, T49Bs, T75Bs and T75C (Transient orcas)
. Throughout the day they traveled up
San Juan Channel
- the first 2 hours they were feeding on what I believe was a Steller sea lion kill, based on the length of time and the amount of birds that stayed with the whales looking for scraps. At
noon
on the Western Prince the whales were still south of Friday Harbor and one whale did a very unusual thing, and repeated it several times. The whale was swimming backwards!
*
At about

5:30 pm
on Maya's Westside Charters we encountered the same whales as they made a kill in
President Channel
, along the northwest side of Orcas Island. When we left they were still heading north.
Jeanne Hyde, San Juan Island
*
This was the most stupendous day in my life at Bold Bluff! My neighbour across the
(Sansum) Narrows
phoned to say the whales were coming past my home shortly before
10AM
, so I grabbed my camera and life jacket and dashed out in the whaler with Daisy, my dog. I followed two orcas for an hour. One had a tall wobbly dorsal fin and the other a small one - probably a male and female. Often they dove and rose together, as if in a ballet. I followed them for an hour, all the way to
Cherry Point at Cowichan Bay
and left them there, heading south. On my way back up Sansum Narrows right at Burial Island to my amazement I saw gigantic splashes and action - wow! A big gathering of more
orcas
where the seals haul out. There were whales everywhere: spy-hopping, jumping, slapping their tails and flippers, dashing here and there crossing over each other and having a grand time. It seemed like there were a lot of babies! I had not a clue whom I was watching, (but I knew I could find out later by phoning you!) My memory card ran out just when I reached the scene of action, so I zoomed home to fetch another card, and my two pruners who were working in the orchard. It didn't take much to convince them to join me in my big boat. Wow! Is all we could say. The whales were super active, and it FELT as if they were chasing food but we never witnessed their surfacing with a big morsel in their mouths. Altogether I stayed out with the whales for 3 and a half hours. Once they surrounded my boat, circling around me (I had taken my pruners back to work!) and I got nervous. Were they asking me to leave? Were they curious? Was there a poor seal hiding out beneath my boat? Two Steller Sea Lions looked very scared. They were heading towards shore with their heads high out of the ocean, looking back towards the whales. Brr! I was COLD! So back at home with a cup of hot tea, I phoned you to ask if anyone had reported the whales and knew who they were. Thank you for getting to Ken Balcomb and John Ford! Graeme Ellis and John came down from Nanaimo, and Simon Pidcock came out from Cowichan Bay. Graeme indentified them as
Transients
, and I am sure he will send you a report of exactly who was playing in the Narrows for so long. Simon stopped by this evening and said he saw a huge carcass on the surface - a sea lion, so they WERE dining! I got some superb photos, too! What a blessing to be living at Bold Bluff, with a good neighbour who phones to let me know the whales are here. I was just heading out the back door to clean the Garden Cottage with a bucket of rags when she phoned. I would have missed the entire show if Joan hadn't called at the precise time she did.
Tamar Griggs, Bold Bluff, Salt Spring Island, BC
*
While pruning fruit trees on a historic property at
Bold Bluff, Sansum Narrows
, between Salt Spring Island and Vancouver Island, we were called out to get in the boat and witness a rare sight, brought to the property owner's attention by a phone call from a neighbour who lives in the Narrows. The orcas had been feeding since daybreak and it was now
11:30 am. Dozens and dozens of orca were feeding in the vicinity of Burial Isl, both to the distant south and east and west in the narrow channel. It is unclear how many were present, though 50 or more was guessed. They would surface in groups of 3, 5, 7 and more, individually or in pairs. There were babies and good old boys. They exhibited every orca behaviour I've ever heard of, repeatedly, both near and far. They were very tactile with each other, seeming to mount each others backs. After feeding, they seemed to get very playful. The numbers of whales and the level of activity was extroadinary. I will never forget this experience.
Bonnie and Raj, Salt Spring Island, B.C.
*
We saw at least
6 Orcas
by
Lopez Island
, coming up
San Juan Channel
with the flooding tide, starting at about

12:20pm
. They were in 2 groups appearing to be feeding as many gulls were with them for leftovers. It looked like 2 families, 2 adult females with their offspring. Able to indentify T-049B with her 5 year old calf T049B1, and it looked like she had a new calf- we could see the yellow tint of the little calf's' white eye patches and chin! They all joined up and swam toward Shaw Island, stopping, lunging and circling as if hunting, then spy hopping at Thatcher Pass, as if deciding which channel to take. They continued up San Juan Channel, crossing over toward San Juan Island and began to hunt again with circling, direction changes, and tails hanging above the water. We went to see Yellow Island and Steller Sea Lions on Spieden Island and as we headed back to Friday Harbor, going between Orcas and Jones Island at about 3pm, there the Killer Whales were again!, families hunting and traveling. We also saw Harbor Seals on the rocks, Bald Eagles, Rhinoceros Auklets, Murres, and Cormorants. A delightful trip!
Caroline Armon, Onboard Tours and The Odyssey, San Juan Island
*
Transients
are at
Whale Rock near Lopez Island
at

9:30am
. Same group as yesterday.
Karen Chapin Rhinehart
*
~
7:30 am:
Transient orcas T41, T41 and an unknown (not T44) hanging around in Barkley Sound, B.C.
Peter Mieras, Rendezvous Diving, Barkley Sound
*
Susan, it

9:00AM
Friday there is a single
whale
maybe Pilot or False Killer Whale 1/4 mile off shore at Lagoon Point headed south. It has a very short dorsal fin that curves toward the tail.
Paul Kukuk, Lagoon Pt, Whidbey Island, WA
We're wondering if this might also possibly be a Minke whale, or the Humpback that has been seen recently, sounds more like a possible Minke - ON
*
Nancy Zaretzke called to report a
Gray whale
mid-channel in
Saratoga Passage
north of Greenbank at noon. She called back at

2:08 pm
to say it was still there, now feeding. This is just north of us, so Howard went down to the bluff and watched it until about 3 pm, as it fed close to shore.
Orca Network, Greenbank, Whidbey Island, WA
*
Island Adventures reports on Facebook they saw
Gray whales # 53 and # 723
today (4/15) off
Everett
- #723 even gave them a spyhop!

