Orca Sightings for November 13, 2018
============================================================

Entry 1:
K20 (Spock) porpoising past Point Robinson
, Maury Island. -Photo by Gayle Swigart
*
Spyhop off Point Robinson

Entry 2:
(
possibly
J40
per Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*

Entry 3:
between Pt Defiance and Vashon
. I sat alone floating in the skiff for an hour with motor off just watching and listening. they were really spread out, not very together that I usually see with Transients. Below is a photo of one of the bulls taken around
5pm
, which Orca I wonder? I have other photos and video to go through that'll I try to post later. Still buzzing from the two full breaches right in front of me!! -Zeno Martin
*

16:38 -
some orcas near the the entrance to
Colvos
, some off east tip (
towards Commencement Bay
by Quartermaster milling. Westbound between Tacoma side Ferry terminal & Owen Beach. -Melissa Burke
*

15:57 - Point Ruston

Entry 4:
*

15:20 at least 5 foraging off Pt. Ruston
, mid channelish.

15:15 Some have crossed Quartermaster Harbor
approaching Vashon Ferry lanes.

15:10
still have trailers that have not passed channel marker,
some spread out along S. Maury Island
crossing Quartermaster Harbor, Westbound.

15:00 -
all around the southern channel marker rounding the
South Tip of Maury Island
, Westbound. White Sailboat with them. -Melissa Burke
*
Hello Alisa, Today at approximately

2:30 pm
I saw
at least 4 Orca, 2 males, 2 females in Puget Sound, off Maury Island south of Pt. Robinson
. They were between the shipping lanes and the Island. There was a small open boat - orange - that seemed to be tracking them and at one point a female came up very near the boat. It almost looked like it may have been a research boat. It was orange, about 20+ feet, open/skiff. Maybe inflatable. There were 2 people in the boat.
Whales were headed south, though circled some as I believe they were fishing. My home is on the opposite shore, at Lakota Beach just north of Dumas Bay 47 longitude, 122 latitude. I watched them through binoculars for about a half hour as they moved south. The boat was still with them. We have seen lots of salmon in the area in the past few days. Sealions have been feeding in this area. I sure hope these are residents getting a good meal. They could use a break.
Thanks for your work keeping track of all this. As a child we spent summers and weekends at Bush Point and the pods were huge in the 60's. We would see them every summer and had no thought that it would ever end. Now I fear for them. -Barbara Nuss
*
Saw several
orcas off Vashon
today, was told there was 2 pods coming from the north. A lot of activity! One of the people that was looking with us from Owens beach side had counted 20. -Photo by Cherie St.Ours, Nov 13, 2018
*

14:47
seeing tiny dorsal & splashes from
Ruston Way
. Heading south
along Maury island
. From my point of view, they just passed a sailboat with an orange sail. Some farther along towards end of Maury. -Heidi Armstong
*

14:51 -
Another small group following, nearing
south end of Maury
.

14:45 -
Just counted 3 orca headed mid-way
between South end of Maury and the south Vashon Ferry terminal
. Headed W/SW, quickly. -Dana Andrew
*
Met up with Gayle at
Point Robinson
where we planted our feet out on the beach about
12:45. Soon after I picked up my binoculars set my eyes to the north and was pleased to see multiple blows heading our way. Over the next 30 minutes or so we patiently waited and watched as the lead orcas moved closer in view to those of us gathering on shore. The first leaders arrive around

13:30
passing offshore mid channel at a good clip; two duos porpoising past in tandem mid channel. Over the next 45 minutes we, along with an ever growing crowd of happy humans, watched
Js, L87 and Ks
stream by in 1-4s spread wide, across the channel east to west and north to south, grouped as families and blended members of both pods. With whales everywhere, it was a pleasurable predicament trying to decide who to watch, where to lay our eyes.
J51 Nova
was one of the early whales to pass in close. This young guy swam past close in-shore with mom and others near.
J40
went by and soon after
J46 Star
passed, made a u-turn where she proceeded to swim directly towards us. Her movement slow and with intention. She then shifted to a parallel tract, continued northbound a short distance close to shore then flipped again to continue southbound with the rest of her pod-mates.
J27
was another who came by super close to shore, his presence big and beautiful.
J49 and mom J37
came by togehter.
K26
was another who passed close in with L87 not far behind a little more offshore.
K42
surfaced nearby next to
J45
and another unidentified member.
J47
came in close, blowing nice bubbles as he surfaced. Was lovely to see
K21
, such a regal fellow. Next up the
K13s
, again this group close to shore porpoising just before the point creating waves which tumbled along the shore moments later.
K20
Spock with her offspring passed by, with elder big boy
K25
further offshore. The
J17s
came along near us affording a sweet look at
J17 Princess Angeline and little J53 Kiki
. I haven't had a chance to go through all photos to see who all was where, but the last family to pass was the
J16s
who approached very close to shore. This family of four went down just before the point and surfaced just beyond, bypassing us all completely on this longish dive. A heartfelt moment to spend a few minutes with this family in particular who has lost so much. Photos taken from shore at Point Robinson -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
(
ID help by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
) .
*
J17 Princess Angeline - Point Robinson

Entry 5:
*

11:45-

12:25 -
Watched from
Dilworth on Vashon
, and saw many whales pass moving steadily south. When I left there was still a large male near the Vashon shore, just south of the Dilworth point, and a few stragglers behind him. Looks like a research vessel is near the tail end of group, mid channel. I think there are closer to 20, or more. Hard to tell as they are so spread out. -Holly Boaz
*

11:00 -

11:45 -
watching from
South Beach on Bainbridge Island
, many orca spread out, heading south maybe mid channel or
West Sesttle side
, north of Vashon ferry lane. Couple of trailers north, closer to Alki. Too far away to iID. Saw a couple of breaches and
at least 3 large whales
. Then scanned from Old Creosote again, looking for trailers noted in
Elliot Bay
and could not find them. Wind is making water pretty hard to see whales. Also, many CA sea lions along the shoreline... and hauled out on red buoy. -Kimberly Sylvester
*

11:20 -
Steady SB headed towards
Point Beals
, a large group that is really spread out - though saw one grouping of
4-5 orcas
together. Not much surface behavior. -Pia VanHanen
*

11:15 -
We saw 2 orcas southbound off the east shore of
Blake island at
11:15 am
. Not much surface activity. -Michael Helser
*

11:30 -
Orca; who believe to be leaders: line of at least dozen orcas spread from
Vashon side to mid channel
heading steady southbound approaching Dilworth. As seen from N side Dilworth.

11:05 - Orca:
No positive IDs yet but is Residents. They are spread across
entire channel from Vashon to Mainland
. Just passed through
Vashon/Fauntleroy Ferry lanes
super spread out steady southbound. All around the Ferry, at a distance and one popped up right next to ferry. As seen while aboard westbound ferry to Vashon. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

11:03 -
Mike at WS Ferries says a large
pod of orcas
is moving south from north Vashon along the
east side of Vashon
.
*

10:35 - Orca
: Large group with at least two males north of
Vashon/Fauntleroy Ferry
lanes west of mid channel. Steady southbound in mild chop. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

10:25
trailers still east of Bainbridge (
blakely harbor
) seen from Rockaway but moving south quickly. -Joel Brazle
*

10:13 -
Male approaching
Blake island
, a little closer to mid channel.

09:59 -
Watching from constellation point...West in channel. Just passing the yellow channel marker close to
Bainbridge
side. -Kersti Muul
*

9:50 -
Lots (
orcas
) already passed right off
Restoration Point
to mid channel, some still between here and Seattle. Heading south still. -Becca Tiger Musser
*

09:55 - Orca
: seeing blows south of Alki off
Blake island
west of mid channel steady south bound. Seas semi- rough. Suns out but wind blowing chilly, bundle up.

09:35 - Orca:
Seeing multiple breaches and at least one male dorsal mid Channel outer edges of
Elliot Bay
between Bremerton/Sea Ferry lanes and Sea/Bainbridge. Viewing from Elliot Bay Marina. Too far and sea level not good vantage point for more precise location, but based on ferry traffic pod still north of Alki/ Restoration Point. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, ON
*

09:00 -

09:30 -
I just wanted to report a sighting of about 8 orcas off of
Bainbridge Island
. The captain said it was 2 pods. The was about
9am to about
9:30am
. They looked to have been a lot of females or younger orcas due to the size of their dorsal fins. -Thank you, Tad Standing Bear
*

09:07 -
Mike at WS Ferries reports
5-7 orcas heading south in the Seattle/Bainbridge ferry route
.
*

09:03 -
My husband is on the
Bainbridge to Seattle ferry
. Just texted large, very active pod. -Pamela Madigan
*

09:00 -
update on Puget Sound
orcas
: Heather Polverino is seeing them mid-channel between
Bainbridge and Seattle
, line-of-sight from Bill Point. Milling with lots of direction changes but still moving south. Too far for ecotype id. -Susan Marie Andersson
*

07:15 - Half dozen or more orca
heading south at a good clip.....mid channel off
Point Jefferson
, Kingston.... look to be heading more towards the Bainbridge side. Quite a bit of breaching from the big splashes I am seeing. They were quite a ways out and I could not see any saddle patches, but I did see one very tall dorsal which I assume was a male. -Chris Beamer Otterson
*
BIGG'S TRANSIENT KILLER WHALES -

Entry 6:
Transient
playing with a common murre off of
East Sooke park
on the
afternoon
of
November 13th. -Photo by Mark Malleson, 2018
*
UNIDENTIFIED KILLER WHALES -

Entry 7:
1300, near Sidney BC, 1 male, 2 females and 1 calf
. Presumably transients but too far away for saddle patches. Also
1330 a lone humpback near San Juan straitt
. -Cherese Taggart
*
On

Entry 8:
a pod travelling south in Rosario Strait
about 200 yards or so from our shoreline. We are between
Sea Acres and Doe Bay resort and look out on the Pea Pod rocks
. The group consisted of a male with a tall dorsal fin and followed by a tightly clustered group (4-6) about 200 yards behind the male orca. They were travelling and moved right along. We were not able to ID or guess genders or ages in the group. We are thrilled to hear the news on TV tonight of the grants/monies heading to saving the SRKW. We so appreciate your work!! -Keith and Ann Jones
*

Entry 9:
~

9:40 - There's a humpback
out front too heading south towards
Bainbridge
....kind of the same path the orcas were. -Chris Beamer Otterson
*

Entry 10:
2:30 -
Can see the
humpback at Chambers Bay
milling around just north of the bouy. -Carrie Gelegonya
*

13:06 - (humpback)
still milling around the south side of
Fox island
.

12:46 - Humpback or grey
is still at the buoy off of
Fox Island
, must be good eating there! -Lisa Wiksten
*

10:14 - (humpback)
Seems to be moving on towards
McNeil
now. That last dive must have been deeper - I saw the fluke.

09:58 - (humpback)
Still keeping close to the buoy. Many shallow blows, then a deep dive.

09:46 - (humpback)
Yes! Eyes on him now. I'm just above
Sunnyside Beach in Steilacoom
. He is just beyond the buoy (Toluca Shoals marker) from my perspective. -Tari Poe Norris
*

09:29 - (humpback)
Moved southbound,
Chambers Bay
a few minutes ago. -Glenn Hansen
*

08:45-

09:00 -
I saw him
(humpback)
headed swiftly Southbound from the bridge towards
Fox Island
, thought I could hear his blows at about
9:00 along the North shore of Fox Island headed South but I couldn't see him. Haven't seen him since. Possibly further South? -Karen Caldwell
*

08:30 - Spotting a humpback now North of the Narrows
. -Lisa Wiksten
*

Entry 11:
gray at Cooper Point spit
. It did a whole bunch of spy hopping. It has been there for hours, going back and forth slightly north and then turns and goes south. Lots of surfacing series and spy hopping - as if trying to feed at the spit itself. This whale is joined by about 30 sea lions. -Kim Merriman
*
Facebook VIDEO posted
07:46 of
gray whale in Budd Inlet
, Olympia this morning, backdropped by Mount Rainier. -Jeff Gregory

