Orca Sightings for September 15, 2017
============================================================

Entry 1:
San Juans - Trip Report from 9/15/17

3:30 -
7:30 PM
- Departed Friday Harbor aboard J1 heading out into San Juan Channel where we encountered lone male
T049A1 just off the shore of Lopez Island
with some directional changes and long dives, possibly looking for dinner. We had a few looks at him but he eventually did a long dive of several minutes crossing the distance more than halfway over to the San Juan Island shoreline. We left him and headed up to
Kanaka Bay in Haro Strait where we found the T123's
accompanied by a NOAA research skiff. They were traveling in a group very close to shore. Mind blowing to see T's in the kelp beds off Eagle Point in September which is where we should be seeing southern residents foraging for Chinook. They traveled south and did a large circle south of Cattle Point at one point heading directly into the majestic peak of Mt. Rainier visible on a clear and calm evening from more than 100 miles away. At this point they had also separated with T123 and T123C traveling closely together and T123A always about a mile away, still well within vocal range. We left them to travel out toward Hein Bank to see if we could find a humpback that had been spotted earlier in the day and encountered a small group of four Pacific white-sided dolphins who played in our wake at times. Leaving them, we almost immediately encountered a minke whale who was surfacing frequently and we got at least a half dozen good looks at this slim, sleek baleen whale. We then pointed back towards San Juan Channel and got many more looks at the T123's still traveling in the split grouping but directionally pointed into San Juan Channel with the Cascades alpenglow making them appear dreamlike. At one point we were drifting idle looking at T123A about 300-400 yards on the starboard side, when T123C surfaced very close to the port side. The engine was immediately shut down and T123 came up within feet of the boat, rolled on her side and looked up. As darkness became imminent, we went over to take a look at Steller sea lions hauled out and vying for real estate with one another as we pondered if one of these giant mammals would eventually become a Friday night feast for the T123's coming up behind us. There is no prettier place on the planet than the Salish Sea in September! -Debbie Stewart
*
While the Southern Residents were here, there were only
2-3 groups of transients spotted per day in the Salish Sea
. Now that the Residents have left again,
we were back up to 10 groups of transients in the Salish Sea today
.
The T123s (including T123A Stanley
, pictured here) in
Haro Strait
were just one of them. Coincidence? Do we not find transients as much when we have residents to look at, or do the transients clear out when the residents are here? -Photo by Monika Wieland Shields,

Entry 2:
*

6:22 p.m. -
Just saw a large male (I think) off of
Point Caution
heading northwest through the San Juan channel. -April Nagrodski
*
Another Killer morning! Cpt. Dan found the
T123's of the Biggs/ Transient Killer Whales
6 minutes from our docks (Sooke), then we had the pleasure to also visit the
T010's and the T109's from Sooke to Race Rocks
....WOW! -Photo by Paul Pudwell,

Entry 3:
7:00 p.m. -
I lucked into hopping onto a boat as they passed Anderson Island and had a little "into the sunset" time with these guys -
T137s
and another pod traveling with them, 7 in total;

6:45 p.m. - headed south around Anderson Island toward Nisqually
;

6:11 p.m. - 2 groups
spread out. Big male is passing the
Steilacoom
ferry dock mid channel, further from shore, other group is behind and closer to shore;

6:07 p.m.
- still southbound, south of chambers creek now, coming into
Steilacoom
. Two small boats keeping a respectful distance and the ferry is headed their way too;

6:00 p.m. - Seen from Anderson island
ferry dock. Headed south, already past the golf course and just north of the Chambers Creek railroad bridge, very close to shore. Matriarch
T137
(34 years old), was travelling with offspring
T137B past Anderson Island
's shoreline. As the sun was setting, the T137s and another pod made their way south of Anderson Island into Nisqually Reach. We had
T137 and her kiddo T137B traveling together, T137A on his own, and another group of 4 beyond him
.
T137B
(11 years old) was travelling with
Mom T137 past Anderson Island
shoreline. -Belen Bilgic Schneider
*
Email received at

6:09 .m. -
Sighted
a pod near Steliacoom in between Chambers Bay and McNeil Island
heading south towards Anderson island no estimate on size of the pod but plenty of breaching. Traveling. -Daniel Martin
*

5:35 p.m. - South of Narrows Bridge near Chambers Bay
. Just off golf course. -Deanna Sparks Kjorlien
*

5:07 p.m. -
watched
five orcas southbound from narrows bridge
travel fairly slowly close to
Gig Harbor side
then more mid channel towards Day Island where they are now out of our sight range. At least one large male in group. -Jill Clogston
*
T137A -
Taken in front my friends house on
Day Island (just south of Tacoma Narrows bridge
today) around
5 pm
. -Photo by Zeno Martin,

Entry 4:
*

4:44 p.m. -
I can count
one group of three and one group of 7. Southbound under the narrows
at 1644 hours. -Matt Graham
*

4:17 p.m. -
Watching from
Gig Harbor
. There's at least
5 females/young traveling together & one male
. They are pretty spread out so possibly more? The male is close to rounding the bend towards the Narrows bridge. At least some of the others stalled out a bit past Salmon Beach. -Heidi Armstrong
*

3:55 p.m. -
They are entering
The Narrows
now. At least 5, with the Adult Male. They also made a kill in Dalco. Research Boat got a sample.

3:33 p.m. - They are in Dalco Passage
. Some heading for Colvos, some heading for the Point (proper) at Pt. Defiance. -Melissa Burke
*

3:15 p.m. - Orcas just off Tahlaquah ferry terminal
15 min ago,
3-4 definitely a bull male
, heading west towards the Narrows crossing ferry lane. Moving fast with 3 boats way to close in pursuit. -Wayne McFarland, WSF
*

3:10 p.m. - Passing by the ferry dock
on the south end of Vashon now. -Neal McCulloch
*

1:45 p.m. -
larger group milling 1/2-1 mile south of mid channel buoy that is
out from PT Robinson
.

1:35 p.m. - after passing Point Robinson
larger group in two groups close to one another held line that took them to mid channel. Bull male and maybe others still inside Vashon side, but also trending towards mid but still Vashon side of others. All southbound last I saw. Long down times and slow/med travel. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

1:25 p.m. - T137
in the lead, then
T36B, then T36 with T137D
far left. They passed
Point Robinson
close to Vashon side, still heading south. Research boat still with them. -Photo by Kelly Burns Keenan,

Entry 5:
(
ID's confirmed by Melisa Pinnow, Center for Whale Research
)
*

12:45 p.m. - Mid channel steady pace southbound sightline south side
Three Tree Point and KVI Beach
, Vashon heading towards Point Robinson. Research skiff still with them. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

12:10 p.m. -
Kelly Keenan called then the orcas showed up!
At least 7 Mid channel out from Dilworth
, Vashon still southbound.
*

11:30 a.m. - At least 3 Orca
headed south, just passing
Vashon ferry dock
. -Ellen Cole
*
T36B
in the lead. Passing
Constellation Point, southbound mid-channel around
11:15 am
. -Photo by Kersti Muul,

Entry 6:
*

10:54 a.m. -
they've rounded
Alki
spread; some in groups and others in ones and twos. Closest groups rounded Alki maybe 1/4 mile offshore. Serene and beautiful in the calm & stillness this morning to watch two groups pass close together inshore Alki side. Lovely to see others through binoculars in the distance spread to far west of the yellow mid channel.
At least 2 bulls
total. All southbound in flat calm seas. From southside Alki. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*
Three groups. Large male behind the rest. Passing Blake SB mid channel 1053
. -Kersti Muul
*

10:34 a.m. - Elliot Bay- Two groups heading south, towards Alki Point
. -Photo by Janine Harles,

Entry 7:
*

9:55 a.m. - group of 6 are well south of West Point/Discovery Park skirting Elliot Bay
slow/med steady pace southbound aiming for Alki. With others spread to the west.

9:30 a.m. - spread group total 6+
few inshore heading toward
West Point Lighthouse
. The other few further offshore per my
9:20 update.

9:20 a.m. -
pod I just saw go under was directly
West of Shilshole
marina east if mid channel. Southbound. Have not resurfaced to get count. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

9:22 a.m. - mid channel near Discovery Park
. Headed south. Maybe a bit east channel.

9:15 a.m. -
mid channel, in front of
Fay Bainbridge
. Milling. -Sandra Prow
*
Directly west of me at north beach now, heading south at

8:51
shortly behind fishing vessel cape flattery. If they aren't visible from Golden Gardens yet, they will be within minutes. Mid channel. -Stephen Sommerfeld
*

8:45 a.m. - off Carkeek
milling by fishing boats. -Steve Smith
*

8:30 a.m -
pod is in between
Richmond Beach and Carkeek Park
. Probably more out from Carkeek very close to this side. Southbound but then milling. No bulls in this group. -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*

8:27 a.m. -
they're south of
Shoreline
now, swimming east toward Blue Ridge
(north of Golden Gardens, North Seattle
) great views down at golden gardens soon I would think.

8:03 a.m. - I moved to Saltwater Park in Richmond Beach
and they're here now. Lagging group almost here.

7:41 a.m -
the rest of the squad just showed up,
at least 6, southbound. They passed very close to Edmonds sid
e.

7:28 a.m. -
I'm seeing at least 2 from Marina Beach in
Edmonds
, southbound.Very close to Edmonds shore! -Michelle Goll
*

7:15 a.m. - Orcas.
Just saw what looked like about four orcas this morning from train. Breached once then dove and didnt see again. About a mile north of the
Edmonds
ferry dock. -David Freed
*

Entry 8:
1:47 p.m. -
Chilkat leaving the
T99s
, (spread out) northbound in Saratoga at Lowell Point. -Renee Beitzell
*

12:30 p.m. -
We left them heading north up the southwest side of Camano.

11:52 a.m. -
Now towards
south end of Camano
.

11:41 a.m -
Red Head just picked them up
Sandy Pt on Whidbey
, southbound. -Rob Sanderson
*

8:28 a.m. -
Ah ha! 3/4 orcas just
east of Boeing pier east of Mukilteo ferry
. Milling about, possibly feeding. Moving west slowly. -Jason R Bourne
*

Entry 9:
T65As
)

4:40 p.m. -
The clipper moved on but from my prospective people on smaller boat must be getting quite a show. Because they are stopped but the Orca are swimming quite close with a couple breaches.

4:36 p.m. -
The Clipper and another boat a stopped watching
Orca due west of Lagoon Point
close to Marrowstone. Too far for me to see from Whidbey, just a fin now and then. Boats are moving north so I assume Orca are also. -Paul Kukuk
*

3:46 p.m. -
They have stalled in front of
Lagoon Point
. Still midchannel. Appear to be hunting. A whale watching boat has arrived and is nearby, north or the last sighting.

3:25 p.m. -
At least four
Orcas moving quickly northbound in Admiralty Inlet
. Midchannel, off of Lagoon Point, Whidbey Island. -Margaret Marshall
*

7:06 a.m. - 6-7 orcas passing Mukilteo Lighthouse Park
. Headed south. (No ID's on this morning group but we had not more reports of this group and then the T65As showed up in Admiralty northoubnd, per Puget Sound Express, so is possible this was T65As based on time and group size and factors of the day - ALB) -Jason R. Bourne
*

Entry 10:
8:30 a.m.
). Was trolling (fishing) Puget Sound, just south of
Richmond Beach
when behind me, to my left, maybe 200 yards we spotted
an Orca, T137A
. It was heading south as well. Was the only boat in the area at the time. Saw the Orca go down and 10 seconds later it surfaced about 30ft off my right side. Must have just wanted to check us out because it altered its path south to make a loop around me. I also thought it strange to see a lone Orca. I've seen the pods go by in the past but never a single Orca. Attached a couple pictures I was able to take and one shows some pretty good tail markings. If you're able to tell me the Orca number by those markings that would be pretty neat. Also, maybe a couple hours later I saw the Edmonds whale watching boat heading South as well. Presumably to see the Orca(s). -Jeramy Thompson
*

Entry 11:
9:45 a.m. -
We saw a small
Humpback
). Too big for a sea lion and not an orca. Surfaced many times. It did look like an irregular dorsal fin. There was definitely a fin though. Heading north about 150 ft from shore.
Smugglers Lagoon Lane , Greenbank.
It's just north of S Whidbey State Park on the west wide of Whidbey Island. Would love to know if others were able to give it a positive id. -Nancy Ritzenthaler
*
Gray whales -

Entry 12:
a single grey whale at
5:30 pm
this evening in
Holmes Harbor
right at Dines Point. It was small. Maybe a baby. That's the best shot I got. I was so fascinated by watching it. It came up for breaths 4 times. Each time it was pretty close to the shore, maybe 50 feet away from me. I'm pretty sure it was feeding. It was small, maybe a baby? We could clearly see the barnacles on it, and it was light in color. Each time it surfaced we could hear the exhalations, short but loud enough to hear. In fact, that's how I first saw it, I heard it out there and then I turned around to see it. It was going south, into Holmes Harbor around
5:30 last night. About 30 minutes later we saw it again, farther out, maybe 200 feet or so, and it was headed north west, towards Greenbank Farm. It surfaced 2 more times that time, and we got to see much more of the body, longer and out of the water a little longer each of those times. It was clearly a Gray. -Debi Wayland
*

Entry 13:
Kalaloch Beach
on Friday with grey whales passing close to shore and feeding in the surf. They looked near enough to walk out to, but we respected the 100 yard distance regulation and were too scared of the water anyway! Seeing their blows highlighted against the blue of the sea and sky and watching them feed in the shallows was an unexpected treat and a booster to the soul. -Sandra Pollard/Richard Snowberger

