Orca Sightings for September 5, 2017
============================================================

Entry 1:
J16 and J50 - Georgia Strait
- One for the memory bank... watching the socializing and logging was the best part. Shut down in the middle of [Georgia] Strait with smokey skies made for quite the scene. Tons of vocals and lots of surface active behaviour. Missed this amazing culture of killer whales....welcome home. -Photo by Gary Sutton,

Entry 2:
Admiralty Inlet & Possession Sound -
8:03 p.m -
At one point they started going off like popcorn with three different animals breaching and a boat came charging at them which settled them right down. I was so mad. Can't make out the registration of the boat.

7:02 p.m. -
Just when I thought they resumed travel they stopped again. Tail slaps, headstands, breaches and spyhops. Can still hear blows from
north of Glendale
but heading towards mid channel and northerly. A female does a headstand during a predation event near Glendale Boat Launch about
7:00 PM. I saw more headstands in this one encounter than all other orca encounters combined. -Debbie Stewart
*
Still after it got dark it was so calm you could hear every breath and breach. A very surreal experience.

8:01 p.m. -
They just
crossed the ferry lines heading nort
h still. Lots of surface activity still. Mid channel.

7:33 p.m. - Seeing them now from Clinton
. Still heading north. Still close to shore on whidbey. Also still a lot of surface activity. Lots of tail slaps.

6:47 p.m. - past Glendale still super close to shore Whidbey
. Combo milling and travel in two tight groups. Maybe taking some dinner along?

6:40 p.m. - super close to shore now
! I've never seen so many headstands!

6:34 p.m. - We were just down at Possession Park
for an amazing display. So calm. You could hear every breath and tail slap. They continued north. I'm up at the Clinton ferry terminal now.
T137A in Possession Sound off southeast Whidbey Island.
-Danielle Pennington
*

5:45 p.m. -
After lots of socializing they all turned north, harassed a sea lion on the
Possession Point
buoy but then moved on. Looks like they're all
heading up Possession Sound close to the Whidbey Island shore
! -Justine Buckmaster
*

5:40 p.m. -
they slowly moved north and are right
off the green buoy at Possession Point
. Saw some breaches...but still visibility terrible at this distance.

5:15 p.m. -
After stalling out for a bit Bart reports they are now trending northbound towards Possession Point. I'm in North Edmonds now and even with binocs visibility is very limited due to wildfire smoke. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, ON
*

4:23 a.m. -
amazing hunting action at
Possession Point
multiple kills. Hunting common murres!
T137A
breaches 5-6 times. Now they are slowly southbound again from Possession.
3
:50 p.m. - many of them flipped north toward Cultus Bay
. On the chase!

3:45 p.m.- Ts very spread out south east of Possession mid channel
. Mostly southbound but one pod heading east at the moment.

3:00 the Ts are just outside of Useless Bay
aiming toward Possession Point. -Bart Rulon
*

1:30 -
1:50 p.m. - Ts
meander south slowly passing a tug boat, down the middle of
Admiralty Inlet, from the bluff south of Bush Point
, looking across Admiralty toward Hood Canal. -Photo by Howard Garrett, Orca Network,

Entry 3:
*

1:21 p.m. -
They are moving south at a good clip.
Almost at Bush Point
now. Margaret Marshall
*

1:06 p.m. -
Half way
between Lagoon and Bush pnts
, mid channel still southbound tightly grouped. -Bart Rulon
*

12:54 p.m. - Whales just southbound passing Lagoon Point
. -Patirica Prochaska
*

11:57 a.m. - This inbound T group is T137s, T99s, T36, T36Bs, and it looks likeT37A1
too! Still southbound in a tight sleeping mode
11:55am just south of pt/coupeville ferry lanes. -Bart Rulon, Chilkat Express
ID'd by Trevor Tillman, Chilkat, as the T99s & T137s
.
*

10:45 a.m. - 8-10 whales just passing Point Wilson
heading into Admiralty Inlet. At least one male, on the Port Townsend side. Watching from Fort Casey, one ww boat nearby, Glacier Spirit? -Jill Hein
*
Unidentified killer whales -
Orcas spotted Kayak Point
today! Wasn't fast enough/close enough to get pictures but they were there! Hard to tell how many, we saw 3...could have been more. Yes,
Port Susan
at Kayak Point. We were beachcombing on a field trip. We had been on beach for hours. Can't be exactly certain of the time, I would guess somewhere
between
11:30 AM and
1:00 PM
. -Julie Urie
*
September 5 - Juan de Fuca - We Love Sooke for the diversity of marine wildlife and anticipation of what we will experience every day!
Humpback whales were encountered all around the Juan De Fuca Strait. Humpback BCX1251 "Orion"
...Also some disturbed California & Stellar Sea Lions feasting on salmon and our Local Sea Otter (Ollie) resting DESPITE ALL THE EXPLOSIONS around Bentwick Island near Race Rocks Light house from the Royal Canadian Navy. -Photo by Paul Pudwell,

Entry 4:
4:52 p.m.
- looks like he is headed
towards Colvos Passage
now.

4:35 p.m. - He's closer to the Tahlequah ferry dock
now. Very active.

4:15 p.m. -
Lots of tail slapping

4:10 p.m. -
Just saw him
between Tahlequah and Ruston
! Cruising towards Ruston. -Lori Patch
*

6:55 p.m. -
Still there, just
west of Owens beach
. Just surfaced closer to Tacoma eastbound.

5:37 p.m. -
He's making his way westbound again
between Anthony's and Owens beach
.

5:15 p.m. -
He's now eastbound mid channel at the
Point Defiance/Talequah ferry lane
.

5:00 p.m. -
Activity patterns suggest this is the same whale from the last several days. The tendency is that he is pretty slow moving and under for long stretches on deep dives, then has 2-3 30 minute periods per day of wild vocalization and pectoral slapping (usually when surrounded by way too many boats way too close). My house is one of the cottages that sits out over the water, (the last one with the Oregon Duck flag). I heard him overnight a bit and saw him all weekend. I'm a little worried about this guy. He's still out just northeast of Owens beach, just saw him surface
5:00.

3:41 p.m. - He's still out there in front of Owens beach
...deep dives and not a lot of action, but still meandering (no real direction). Seen from my deck at Point Dalco. -Sarah Bradford Honeywell
*

4:42 p.m. -
visible hump then fluke seen from the port side of the WSF Sealth
en route to Tahlequah nearer Vashon
on a sightline to Point Defiance (not Ruston). -Andrew Casad
*

1:59 p.m. - Humpback breaching outside of Quartermaster Harbor
, south end of Vashon Is. -Amy Bliss-Miller
*

1:23 p.m. - Off Ruston way single whaleflipping flopping and calling out right now
. -Nancy Polich
*

Entry 5:
7:45 pm. Humpback at Point No Point
close to shore waiting for a moonrise and now a pleasant surprise! -Elyse Sollitto
*

6:06 p.m. -
Just crossed the ferry lane might be headed more
southwest now towards Kingston
.

4:59 p.m. - Humpback Edmonds Ferry Terminal
. Headed south. Appears to be alone, may be a different humpback than the one reported earlier this morning. -Courtney Burrell
*

1:00 p.m. - Watched 2 humpbacks milling about just south of Whidbey island
east of the northbound shipping lane right about 1.00pm. They turned and headed North, up Admiralty Inlet. -Shannan Epps
*

11:55 a.m. -
It is glassy calm out here, I've not seen the humpbacks.
Whales headed NWerly directionally towards Admiralty
well over 30 minutes ago according to a woman I spoke with in Edmonds.
*

10:13 a.m. -
Now with them on Chillkat Express,
Edmonds ferry terminal
north maybe 3/4 mile offshore. -Trevor Tillman
*

9:00 a.m. -
WS Ferries reports a
humpback in the Kingston-Edmonds ferry lane
. No direction given.

8:03 a.m. -
Trevor Tillman reports seeing
2 humpbacks heading northeast along the Edmonds/Kingston
ferry route. Approx 2 miles off Kingston.
*

Entry 6:
8:53 a.m.
- And, a
resident Gray is
still poking around
Bullman Beach
this morning. Not so close as before/tide is very low, but still around. -Scott Hartman
*

Entry 7:
11:33 a.m. -
Sounds like there are two. We just got back home to
Manzanita beach
and heard there was a whale that came up into
Quartermaster Harbor
. In harbor now going towards Burton. That must have been the one that surfaced next to our canoe at Point Piner. -K Rachel Keil
(
possible 2nd whale is
gray whale
- see Ehret report below
)
*

9:09 a.m. -
(reported as humpback) just passed us on
SE Maury (Sandy Shores area)
, in very shallow water, quickly heading south close to shore. After some discussion: ...given the speed it was traveling and the very shallow water it was in. I thought it was a humpback based on the fin that surfaced the two times I saw it rise and blow. But gray makes more sense. I've gone out and polled my neighbors who also saw the whale as it passed. They all agree that it wasn't a true fin, and was more of a ridge. -Jon Ehret
*

Entry 8:
Possession Point
on our afternoon trip for Chilkat Express. They were very spread out in the beginning, but it didn't take long before things got really exciting. The
T137s, T99s, T36Bs, T36, and T37A1
were aiming
southward toward Kingston and Edmonds
when all of a sudden they turned around and started porpoising (speed swimming)
toward Possession Point
! The chase was on! As we kept our eyes on
4 of them racing north
another few whales, to the east of us, busted into a bait ball! 75 -100 gulls all shot into flight at the same time to avoid them. Chases were going on in all directions, and
T137A
, a big 15 year old male who was the farthest away and swimming by himself at the time, burst out of the air 5 times in a row, for some very impressive breaches!! It took us a while to realize that these killer whales were
hunting common murres
. The murres were scurrying around at the surface trying to get away, and the transients were exploding out of the water attempting to catch them, or slapping them with their tail flukes to stun them! It was a truly remarkable experience! No common murre within 400 hundred yards was safe. The anxious birds were frequently plunging their heads into the water over and over to try to spot any black and white torpedoes shooting toward them! Most of the adult common murres can't fly right now because they molt their flight feathers after nesting, which leaves them flightless for 1-2 months! It makes them much easier targets! -Bart Rulon, Puget Sound Express naturalist
*
Morning Trip:
September 5 2017 - a very memorable day for our passengers with Puget Sound Express! A transient superpod swam
into Puget Sound from Admiralty Inlet
! The pods included the
T137s, T36Bs, T99s, T36, and T37A1
! They were grouped up together very tightly, as if they were sleeping, to start things off. After about 20 minutes we noticed a nuclear submarine coming in from the Strait of Juan de Fuca, with its various escorts. As the submarine approached the killer whales from behind the animals woke up and started getting very active. We witnessed several breaches and tailslaps from the killer whales as the submarine approached and passed by. One of the frequent breachers was T37A1, who is a 10 year old killer whale that does not travel with its birth pod anymore. This is a rarity among killer whales! -Puget Sound Express naturalist, Bart Rulon

