Orca Sightings for November 8, 2017
============================================================

Entry 1:
It's been a while and I still have a ton of catching up to do with photo editing and posting, but here are some shots from today's orca encounters on the Chilkat Express! We met up with
K Pod and the L54s all traveling together
in a resting line just south of Seattle! So amazing to see so many whales in the same spot! We also saw a spyhop from
K16 Opus
early in the encounter just as they all grouped up and began their afternoon nap....From my photos, I was able to ID all extant members of
K Pod, including K27 and K44
who I did not notice while we were on scene. -Justine Buckmaster, Chilkat Express
*
A friend of mine works on one of the
Seattle
ferries, today she captured
"K" pod down by Seattle
. Here are her photos with permission to share them to you guys.
Matriarch K12 Sequim. K12's 16-year-old son K33 Tika (right side). K33 Tika's left side. K21 Cappuccino (Sole survivor of the K18 matriline. Associates with the K16's
- CWR). -Sent by Sandy Thompson Watne
(
ID by Melisa Pinnow, Center for Whale Research
)
*
We received a call from a gentleman onboard the

4:35 pm Bainbridge Island to Seattle ferry - they saw 3 orcas
including 1 adult male, off the Starboard side of the ferry north of Alki heading west at about

4:45 pm
. They saw the poster on the ferry to call and report whale sightings - thank you Washington State Ferries and your observant whale watching passengers!
*
SRKW, about 8 headed north from Alki about
3:45 this afternoon
. Project at Seattle ferry terminal shutdown. We quit for the day at
4:30. They were still in shutdown area headed NW at that time. -Burt Miller, WSF
*

3:49 p.m. - Northbound now north of Alki lighthouse at
3:49pm
- Pod of six with large alpha in rear. -Jim McDermott
*

3:40 p.m. - Going past Constellation drive on Alki Point
now. -Linda JRusch
*

3:00 p.m. - 12 or so Orca headed north 1/2 mile offshore of 5400 block of Beach Dr SW
. At first sleeping, travelling slowly together. Then dispersing, spyhopping, taillobbing. -Joshua Benoliel
*

2:54 p.m. - spyhop off Me Kwa Mooks
! -Jason Lee Bell
*
Orcas in Puget Sound, seen from Lincoln Park in West Seattle
. -Video by Ben Maund,

Entry 2:
*

2:37 p.m. - Just passing Lincoln Park
north end now. Still slowing heading north. -Dave Buchart
*

2:00 p.m. -
I'm across the road from ferry terminal. Definitely
northbound
, definitely east of midchannel now. Nearly to ferry terminal.

1:53 p.m. -
I'm leaving
Fauntleroy ferry terminal
, looks like foraging behavior just east of midchannel. Chilkat left but NOAA research boat is joining them. -Jason Lee Bell
*

1:43 p.m. -
They have turned and are heading north, not moving very quickly, maybe foraging. The tour boat just left them. Still always
south of the Vashon ferrry dock
.

1:15 p.m. -
Seeing many whales from
Fauntleroy
(they are close to Vashon), ten at least with 3 tall dorsals. They are in a tight group heading south at a good clip, with a tour boat following. -Jennifer Hammer, ON/WSN volunteer
*
Around

12:20pm
got on scene to find a very large group of
tightly bundled up orcas
just west of mid channel
between Blake and Vashon Islands heading south
. To the south could see a few orcas heading northwest bound towards the larger group. They
soon tucked in with the others creating one beautiful large group.
This powerful mass of lovely beings continued steady southbound in resting mode (save for with one spyhop, an inverted roll and occasional slight tail slap). By

12:55 they were south of the Fauntleroy/Vashon ferry lanes
, by now had moved over to mid channel, trending even further east still heading southbound. By

1:25pm they they had made it as far as Brace Point where K21
then veered towards mid channel as he went under, others followed. On their next surface at

1:26 they surfaced going in the opposite direction
, now all heading northbound a little spread out, but soon regrouped and for several minutes made little to no progress while logging. Last saw them about

1:40pm off Brace Point
slowly heading north.
All of K pod with the L54s, L84 & L88 in resting.
Inexpressible...(Thanks to Justine Buckmaster for ID'ing K pod and the L54s). -Alisa Lemire Brooks
*
Watching them now at
1250 of the Vashon/Fauntleroy
1245 run. Quite a few of them. Southbound. I think I counted 8. -Felicia Saathoff
*

12:45 p.m. -
Jeff Hogan reports
at least 15 orcas seen from Lincoln Park
, West Seattle, traveling south mid-channel between West Seattle and Vashon Isl.
*

12:00 p.m. -
Watched large group from south of
Bainbridge Island heading south toward Vashon
. 3 males. Maybe 10 others. -Linda J Rusch
*

11:52 a.m - Southbound big group just south military ships between Bainbridge and Blake
. We're at Lincoln Park pool. -Laura Bydalek Adams
*

11:45 a.m -
A party of five more, west end of channel,
between Blake and Bainbridge
.

11:35 a.m. -
Spotted a male with either a juvenile or female, on the west side of the channel
in front of Bremerton
(Manchester), slowly traveling south
towards Blake Island
. Possible followers. -Pia VanHanen
*

11:52 a.m -
from my vantage point at
Me Kwa Mooks
at least one male appears to have
reached ferry lanes (Vashon/Fauntleroy)
, may be closer to mid channel. Line of sight to the left of the Vashon ferry terminal anyway.

11:30 a.m. - Viewing Me Kwa Mooks
. Appears to be two leaders including male line of sight to Southworth. Maybe a half dozen more following southbound line of sight to mid Blake Island. -Jason Lee Bell
*

11:51 a.m. - 7-8 more in trailing group just passed Tillicum Village
.

11:40 a.m. - Large male in lead just passed Tillicum Village
(Blake Island). Southbound.

11:25 a.m. -
Large leader has significant bend in tip of dorsal. They are very far west so make what you can of photo. Still milling and slow trending SB.

11:03 a.m. - One group still at end of Bainbridge Southbound
, west in channel. Saw 5 fins including large male. Watching from Lowman Beach. -Kersti Muul
*

11:00 a.m. - Approx 15+ whales
. Many males. Seem to be resting, slowly coming up for breaths, many at a time. Gorgeous and peaceful sight. They are
west of Alki
. Watching from Rockaway Beach on Bainbridge. -Kimberly Sylvester-Malzahn
*

11:01 a.m. -
now I'm seeing more, spread out
between Blake and Bainbridge
.

10:45 a.m. -
Seeing 2 southbound orcas, one adult male,
passing south end of Bainbridge Is.
From south of Alki Point. -Stephanie Raymond
*

10:35 a.m. - Tight pod of 8-10 line-of-sight to Port Blakely
steady southbound on west side of channel. I'm viewing from north side of Alki.

10:27 a.m. - near Port Blakely, Bainbridge Island
.

10:20 a.m. -
Viewing from north side of Alki Beach,
whales between Bremerton and Bainbridge ferry
runs still southbound west side of channel. -Jason Lee Bell
*
Orcas near Bainbridge, sighted from ferry at 10 AM
10/8/17. Perhaps 6 orcas. -Mary Tiffany
*

10:00 a.m. - Orcas off Eagle Harbor
looks like they are traveling south. (from ferry). -Kyle Arbour
*

9:56 a.m. -
Mike at WSF reports
8 orcas heading south at Tyee Shoals on the Bainbridge to Seattle run
.
*

9:45 a.m. -
Found them.
Between Eagle Harbor and Restoration Point, Bainbridge
, west of mid channel. Some foraging behavior, but primairly southbound travel. At least 8-10 in two groups including at least 3 adult males. I would guess residents. Viewing from Magnolia Bluff. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
Carey Kirkland relayed a report from Chris who works for WS ferries: "spotted
orcas heading south off of Edmonds on our 0625 out of Kingston
. There were
6-8
. They were all small from what I could see (in response to if any adult males). Lot's of dorsal fins"
*
November 8 - We were so lucky today! Not only did we get to see the majesty of Southern Resident Killer Whales in a resting line, we also witnessed and exciting high speed chase/hunt by
Transient Killer Whales!
These are the
T137s
and we were treated to a BIG spyhop and a couple of tail lobs from bull
T137A
! -Justine Buckmaster, Chilkat Express,

Entry 3:
*

3:20 p.m. - T137 and her 2 youngest north side of Apple Cove Pt.
Her adult son T137A has now moved over to the west of them and is traveling behind and more inshore on the Kitsap side still steady southbound. Soon they'll be in acoustic range of the residents

3:00 p.m. - look like chasing something. T137, T137B, T137D Currently west of mid channel out from Eglon
heading directionally towards Apple Cove PT, Kingston. T137A is to the east and ahead of them, as if they are coralling some cetacean. They have been cruising at fast pace.

2:48 p.m. - this is T137s
and look to be on or done with a kill. 2-3 miles south of Possession Point. spyhop, tail lobs, circling, chasing. But hauling southbound fast.

2:25 p.m. - From Possession Point
spotted the pod south of us maybe 1-2 miles. Heading that way for better look and hopefully get IDs. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
12 noon -
WSF monitors just saw
three orcas between the Mukilteo lighthouse and Hat Island
, so just north of the ferry lane,
heading north
off Everett. They saw one adult male and one that looked small.
*

11:59 a.m. - Orca just north of ferry, Mukilteo side. 4- 5 whales (1 male),
very active with tail slaps. Too distant to identify. No binoculars or camera. I watched these guys from the NOAA building in Mukilteo, they had turned southbound and crossed the ferry line, then I lost sight of them. -Jill Hein
*

Entry 4:
Three Tree Point, Burien
) and watching
a large group of dolphins
just off the point heading north but lingering off the point. -Kim Baumgartner

Entry 5:
a small pod of Orcas around 2 pm-ish in Elliot Bay
immediately south of the ferry terminal, and very close to shore/piers - I was heading northbound on the viaduct when I saw them - not sure how I didn't wreck - I assume they were T's - saw 3 to 4 fins and a couple tail slaps and several gulls flying overhead that looked ready to share in the late lunch. -Tony Bahnik
(
WSF monitors for the Coleman dock project did not see any orcas or dolphins in Elliot Bay at this time. They did have sea lions feasting on salmon - ALB
)
*

Entry 6:
K pod and L54's were in Puget Sound
on
November 8.
Beautiful L88 Wavewalker, sole survivor of the L2 matriline, who now associates with the L54s. Off West Seattle
. They were in resting mode and often surfaced in synchronicity...we have seen this pod less than five times this year, and for many others, even less than one. This is where they should be and....aren't. Luckily, the chum salmon had a much better run this year (comparatively) and that is what they are looking for right now. Hoping they come back soon! -Renee Beitzel

Entry 7:
*

2:31 p.m. -
I can still see the NOAA boat and the t
wo L Pod members
all across the channel,
near the Bremerton shoreline
. -Pia VanHanen
*

2:15 p.m. - see them (3-4 orcas in Blake group) from Lowman, heading North along Blake Island
. No sign of Fauntleroy Orcas from here. -Trileigh Tucker
*

2:00 p.m. - Foraging along the way but now close to north end of Blake island
. I see them from South Lincoln Park, heading north bound. Research vessel is following. -Sonja Yates Seymour
*

1:40 p.m. - Watching from Lowman Beach
. Visible, but on west side of channel. Still Northbound. -Kersti Muul
*
Maia at WA State Ferries called at

1:23 pm to report 3 - 4 orcas off Fauntleroy
, near Brace Pt. heading north.
*

1:08 p.m. - 5 mid channel between Fauntleroy and Vashon ferry line
, Northbound. -Andrea Leigh
*

12:42 p.m. -
Update: confirmed residents from Kelly Keenan's photos: males
L84 & L88
(they associate and travel with the L54s so presumably they are here too)
confirmed by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
. -Photo by Kelly Keenan,

