Orca Sightings for August 23, 2008
============================================================

Entry 1:
Dave Ellifrit, Mackenzie Consoier, and Adam U of the Center for Whale Research encountered
transients
in Swanson Channel(48 42.581 N, 123 15.436 W) at

6:26 p.m.
. The whales were traveling tight and heading northwest. The individuals documented were: T14, T101A, T101C, T100, T100B, T100D, T101, T102, and T101C. The encounter ended at

7:43
one mile north of Moresby Island, B.C. (48 44.700 N, 123 19.040 W) with the transients in loose groups traveling west.
Center for Whale Research
*
Ken Balcomb and Mackenzie Consoier of the Center for Whale Research encountered
J's and L's
off Hannah Heights (48 29.466 N, 123 07.447 W) on the west side of San Juan Island at

10:12 a.m.
. The whales were spread out in tight groups from Lime Kiln Lighthouse to Kellett Bluff. Groups were traveling steadily north until about

11:45
when they turned around near Open Bay and began traveling south. The encounter ended at
12:09 p.m. just off Mitchell Bay (48 33.185 N, 123 10.855 W).
Center for Whale Research
*
I went on an Island Packers boat out of
Ventura, CA
, enjoying
bottlenose dolphins
when located the
orcas
on the south side of Santa Cruz Island! We observed an adult female, a calf, and a juvenile male for about an hour. I have sent some photos to Alisa Schulman-Janiger who is familiar with these whales and identified the adult female as
CA138
. The orcas were involved with a sea lion who sought the cover of our boat. That brought the orcas right to our boat! They then left the boat without their prey but stayed in the area. Later we saw an immobile sea lion on the surface of the water. We were wondering about its condition when all of a sudden it porpoised out of the water and went on its way! The same day, we also saw a
blue whale
,
common and bottlenose dolphin
, a flying fish, lots of red phalaropes, and a blue shark!!
Lauren Townsend, Redondo Beach, CA
*
About
7 pm
we saw a large pod of
orcas
from the road east of Lime Kiln State Park. They were swimming in groups of 3 to 5 whales. We believe there were about 20 or more whales. They were hard to count because they circled around for 10 to 15 minutes before moving east. It was a wonderful display including several whales breaching. We understand the whales were swimming in Haro Strait all day. We had spoken to some boaters in Snug Harbor before going out kayaking about 11 am who had seen a large group of whales out in the strait.
Sally LeRoy, Vancouver, Washington
*
As we were watching
Js and members of L pod
pass Hannah Heights on Saturday from

12:45 -
1:15 pm
, I also observed a Minke whale just beyond the orcas, about 1 mile offshore, heading west toward Victoria.
Howard Garrett, Orca Network, Whidbey Island
*
In the early morning
J and L Pods
came south after spending all day the 22nd at the Fraser River, and passed the west side of San Juan Island. Around
10-11 AM
J and L Pods headed north along San Juan Island, and reports came in of K Pod heading in from the Strait of Juan de Fuca. Around noon, J and L Pods turned south after reaching Henry Island, and headed down to meet the incoming K Pod off the south end of San Juan Island. Around
5 PM
all three pods traveled north close to shore past Lime Kiln State Park. Around 7 PM all three pods traveled back south past Lime Kiln State Park.
Monika Wieland, Friday Harbor, San Juan Island
*
The Center for Whale Research's
orcacam
at around

6:50pm
, I saw three amazing breaches, big splashes and lots of spouts! Also, saw lots of boats surrounding the action (about 12).
Jayme Evans-Port Townsend
*
We were rewarded with getting to watch them pass by the west side of San Juan Island three different times! We woke up at
6 am
to a pink sky & a pod of
orcas
off Hannah Heights, west San Juan Island! They were traveling south, close by, moving quite fast & not doing a lot of foraging. We are pretty sure we got a quick look at the new L pod calf - a tiny calf jumping out of the water amongst the pod. From previous reports & what we could observe from land, we believe this was J pod & members of Ls. Back to the west side just in time to see orcas (Js & Ls again) heading south past Hannah Heights again from

12:45 -
1:15 pm
(we missed their mid-morning north-bound passby while in Friday Harbor). Then we heard K's were coming in, and hoped they would all turn north again - and at
4:25 pm they showed up, all 3 pods, heading north past Hannah Heights! We watched them until they'd all passed by at around
5:15 pm - there were some rolling, breaching, lob-tailing and more active behaviors as all three pods joined together, but they were still in a travel mode and only doing a little foraging here & there.
Susan Berta & Howard Garrett, Orca Network, Whidbey Island
*
Saturday we were near Victoria BC in search of
Orcas
when the captain got word that some K's and L's were coming in from the West. We finally caught up with them as they headed east. We spent time with K-21 Cappuccino. He's magnificent to up see up close as he moves through the very calm seas. We also spotted L-77 Matia, L- 78 Gaia and L67 Splash. There were a couple of others we could not ID. We also heard more Orca's were coming from the north.
Vicky Miller
*
We saw
orcas
near Snug Harbor, just off of Henry Island, by Mosquito Pass, about
11 am
. They came from the south, and traveled up to the point before turning around and heading back south. There were quite a few whales, probably more than one pod, and they were traveling slowly, and pretty spread out. Some tight family groups, but spread all over. Lots of breaching and tail lobs, and quite a few got pretty close to the stopped boats. One large male, I'm not sure who, came right up next to us!
Catherine Bevens, the Whale Museum
*
Imagine my surprise as I aimed for John's Pass to discover whale watching boats South of the entrance. A quick call to Ivan, who confirmed that it was indeed
transients
! So I shut down and got ready to watch the whales as they worked the shoreline. Soon I noticed the very distinctive dorsal fin of T14 Pender (you can't miss those two notches on the leading edge of his dorsal fin from where the radio transmitter was bolted! see photo above) I'm not sure, but I believe the T101s and maybe T124's were there, but I'm not as good at ID-ing these families (but I'm pretty sure I saw T102). As they passed the eastern entrance to John's Pass, they actually turned into the pass! But just as quickly, they turned around and made a huge lunge and circle, I can't confirm it, but they sure acted as if they had just made a kill! Lots of circling and then back to slow travel mode. I left the whales heading west towards the Turn Point Lighthouse.
John Boyd (JB), Naturalist supposed to be taking a day off

Entry 2:
) off the back side of Santa Cruz Island (see above photo), by both the Islander and the Condor Express. Images from this sighting and from Steve's two sightings are the first images that I have seen just these three together (without any other associates). CA138 is a VERY identifiable female we call "Scratchy" for the big scratches on both sides of her saddle. She was first photographed in Monterey Bay in
October 1995. She commonly preys on California sea lions. She is often seen off Monterey: I saw her there in 2005 and 2006. She was photographed with her VERY young calf in
May 2007 off Malibu. They both were photographed in the Santa Barbara Channel in
September 2007. CA138 was with other killer whales on these occasions, including the young male. When photographed in 1998, 1999, and 2003, this young male was not with her; his identity is unclear. He has a distinctive, wide triangular dorsal fin. If anyone else has images of this whale (or of CA138 and her calf) I'd love to see them!
Alisa Schulman-Janiger, California Killer Whale Project, ACS/LA Gray Whale Census and Behavior Project
*
Just south of Day Island there was a group of 5-6
Harbor Porpoises
. Their is alot of bait fish around now down here.
Bryan Owens, Tacoma Wa.
*
We saw a mom, calf and juvenile male
Orca
in
Monterey Bay CA
. I'm guessing these are the same
transients
I reported back in April. It appeared they had made a kill before we came upon them, as every now and then one would surface with a chunk of something in its mouth. We also saw 8
humpbacks
, some
Risso's
and
Northern Right Whale Dolphins
,
Harbor and Dall's Porpoises
, an Ocean Sunfish, a Black-footed Albatross and 2 species of jellies!
Steve Johnston, Senior Guest Experience Trainer, Monterey Bay Aquarium
*
From
1pm to 4pm
, with very little tidal exchange, the
orcas
were spread out between False Bay and Pile Point, out into the Strait of Juan de Fuca, doing the south side waltz once again! Lots of directional changes, circling, foraging, and some breaches!
Caroline Armon, NOAA sponsored Whale Museum Land Based Wildlife Tour

