Orca Sightings for June 15, 2008
============================================================

Entry 1:
At approximately
4pm
we were hiking at Francis Point Penninsula Park (aka locally as Beaver Island) near Madeira Park on the Sunshine Coast in British Columbia, Canada. We were approximately 300 feet above the wavy water. It had a somewhat narrow dorsal fin, very black, approximately 2 feet in length and very slightly curved to one side at the top; to the right, I think. We could see no body nor at any time did we see spouting or any other activity. It was travelling NORTH in the Georgia Strait between the mainland of the Sechelt Penninsula and Texada Island. The sighting lasted about 20 minutes. We last saw the whale heading away from the shore, which it had been hugging, to further out into the Strait, still travelling north. What we saw was clearly an
orca
whale.
Janet Lemmon, Gibsons, BC
*
Several weeks ago my wife, son and I saw what was
probably a Minke whale
from our living room in Richmond Beach (Shoreline). I spotted whale spouting in and around the same location as Leonard and Julie Vaughn did. The first blow I noticed happened around
7pm
, and spouting continued sporadically until at least
8.30pm
, when we finally stopped watching. Between my wife and I we probably saw 20-30 different blows. We watched as the whale spouts move lazily from south of the mid-channel buoy, then north of the buoy, then south again. The majority of time the spouting we saw was north of the buoy, relative to our view. We estimate the blows rose to a height of about 5-6 feet off the surface of the water, with clusters of 3-5 per minute, then disappearing for random periods of time, only to re-appear again later. Through binoculars I had more than one decent but not great view of the whale's dorsal fin, which appeared to be sickle-shaped, similar to either a Minke or a humpback, as the Vaughns suggested. I have to wonder if the Minke spotted moving southeast from Point No Point around 6.30pm and the spouting we saw were associated the same whale, or if this was in fact a different whale altogether, whether Minke or humpback?
David Haas
Still a difficult call on this one - Minke spouts are often inconspicuous, but not always.
*
We spotted a single
Grey whale
traveling towards Hat Island (Gedney Island) from the Everett area. around
3 pm
, when we stopped to watch him we are at NW 122 66.00 I believe. He was moving along quite fast, he did slow down a bit once north of us.
The Clifton's
*
Sighted a single whale off Point No Point at approximately

6:30 pm
. The whale was offshore cruising southeast past Point No Point. It surfaced 3 times before we lost sight of it. It
appeared to be a Minke whale
based on the shape of the dorsal fin.
Patty Michak, MarineView Fisheries Consulting, Inc.
*
We have been watching a whale spouting in the setting sunlight - mid-channel off Richmond Beach (Shoreline), in the vicinity of the "Sierra Foxtrot" mid-channel buoy. First sighting about

8:45pm
.
Possibly humpback
. First spotted moving north, but then he turned a few minutes before
9pm
and headed south. We've been able to follow him for nearly 30 minutes so far.
Leonard & Julie Vaughn, Shoreline, WA
*
As we were heading north, we had the opportunity to view something most people don't see--a large standing wave at Boiling Reef (Saturna Island) where the flood tide was meeting the power of the Fraser River. It was interesting to see not only the color change, but the jump in water temperature (10 degrees). As we waited south of the coal docks, we saw the tall and stately dorsal fin of
J-1 Ruffles
as he worked a tide rip. He was doing "casual" surfacings, not seeming to be in any sort of hurry. He was being a good son and traveling close to mom
J2 Granny
. We also saw
J26 Mike and J27 Blackberry
, as well as
J17 Princess Angeline
. All seemed to be intent on foraging and a few times we saw foraging-type activity with lots of directional changes and a few lunges.
In our evening trip, we were once again with
J-Pod
, but further down Rosario. The whales were slowly working against the flood tide and were quite spread out. While shut down, we were able to hear
J8 Speiden's
distinctive blows echo over the water. The whales then got a bit frisky with
J2
and
J28 Polaris
doing surface percussives (tail slaps) and then Granny did a huge beautiful breach (especially impressive when you consider she's 97 years old!) There were breaches by J27 as well, and lots of other tail slaps, a few spyhops, and it was so peaceful and beautiful in the late afternoon sunshine.
John Boyd (JB), Marine Naturalist, Western Prince
*
We were just south of Point Roberts when we encountered
J and L pods
. There was a lot of breaching, cartwheeling and spy hops.
J1
and
J2
were cruising together. They were spread out for miles in the open waters of Georgia Strait. There was a lot of fish foraging with the salmon jumping right out of the water with the whales right behind! It was a great day out there with the sun shining, finally.
Victoria Souze, Island Mariner Cruises, Bellingham
*
Our
AM
trip had us battling large waves in the Strait of Georgia to visit with some
members of both J Pod and L Pod
north of Sandheads (South Arm of the Fraser River) travelling southbound. When we first arrived on scene, the larger group of whales (some of J Pod) appeared to be resting, while 3 whales (L Pod members) were more active and moving as a separate group. The active group spyhopped several times while travelling through the rocking waves. We eventually determined that the L Pod whales present were L57 (Faith), L7 (Canuck) and presumably L53 (Lulu). We also ID'd some members of J Pod -
J1 (Ruffles)
,
J2 (Granny)
,
J8 (Speiden)
. As the whales approached the South Arm of the Fraser River, the J Pod whales became very active, breaching, carthwheeling and spyhopping. We observed several foraging sequences with whales lunging at fish, often clearing the water while doing so. We also observed J1's big fin sharking through the water as he pursued breakfast. We left the whales Southbound at approximately

10:45 AM.
The
PM
trip was a huge contrast to the AM. We met up with
J Pod
in the almost glassy calm waters of the southern Strait of Georgia. The whales were very spread out, travelling gradually southeast towards Cherry Point on the Washington State mainland. Ruffles and Granny were moving in regal style at the southern edge of the group, with the others spread north and east of them. Once again, the whales seemed to be enjoying a relaxing sunny Sunday afternoon. We observed one foraging event along a tideline that involved
J8, J29 and J41
, and some very distant breaches - we saw the explosive splashes rather than the actual breach! We left the whales at approximately
16:15 hours, still moving gradually southeast.
Joan Lopez, Naturalist, Vancouver Whale Watch
*
Orca
parade off Lummi Island heading south from about

6:30-8 p.m
. - once again, spread WAY out, for miles - some close to shore and some out mid-channel in small groups - must be J's again - heard a wheezy one (Speiden?) - couple of breaches near shore - gorgeous evening.
Penny Stone, Lummi Island
*
Orca Network received a message this afternoon from Russ Thomas, reporting a pod of 7
orcas
that has been seen off
Pt. Delgado, Shelter Cove, CA
. They saw them feed about a week ago (didn't say on what), & said they have been sighted every other day for the last month.

