Orca Sightings for June 21, 2008
============================================================

Entry 1:
Neil Zeiger called Orca Network to report an
orca
sighting, seen off Navarro Point, near the mouth of the
Albion River CA
. He saw 3 or 4 females and one male traveling north near shore.
*
We received a call today from Margie Hopper, reporting a sighting of
4 orcas
off
Seal Pt, Navarro, CA
(they had just read an article with our number to report orca sightings, so called in this belated sighting 03/11/09).
*
Orca Network received a call from Ed Davies, of
Mendocino, CA
- he was relaying a report from several people who saw
orcas
off Van Damme State Park - the same whales we've had reported to us by several people so far.
*
Orca Network received another report today of the
orcas
off
Mendocino/Ft. Bragg, CA
. The caller was Dennis McKiver with Calif. Fish & Game - he reported a pod of ~5 or 6
orcas
, including 1 adult male, a female & some younger orcas, approx. noon in Mendocino Bay, CA. He said a few hours earlier they were reported off Albion, and later in the day off Ft. Bragg. All reports had them traveling very close to shore.
*

5:30 -
8:30 PM
our local resident orcas (
J-pod, K-pod, L-pod
) have formed a superpod!! Off of the southwest end of San Juan Island, all spread out and swimming in smaller groups up and down the coast! We see plenty of breaching, pec slaps, belly rolls, and spy-hopping!! There's a young calf and mother that spy hop nearby! L-74, a 22 year old male is trying to mate with a female of the K-pod or J- pod.
Jaclyn Van Bourgodien, naturalist San Juan Safaris
*
We received a call tonight from Trevor Moelke, reporting a sighting of 1
orca
with a large fin, as he was coming up the Washington Coast at 46 50.2N, 124 21.3W (about 10 miles west of
Westport WA
). He said the orca was heading north.
*
Orca Network received a call from Marcus Strutz & Sally Ottoson who work at the Pacific Star Winery, 3 miles south of Westport, 12 mi. north of
Ft. Bragg CA
, reporting 5
orcas
at

7:30 pm
. 1 male, 4 others, next to & very close to the rocks, heading north. The sea lions scrambled out of the water onto the jagged rocks.
*
At about
1300-1400 hrs
, I sighted three
Orcas
swimming and apparently playing on the fringe of a large kelp bed near Little River State Beach and Van Damme State Park in Northern California. The state beach is about 15 miles south of
Fort Bragg, CA
. I was in a kayak about 1/4 to 1/2 mile off shore. One Orca appeared to be a large adult, one a juvenile and the third almost as large as the adult. The dorsal fins appeared to be 2-3 feet high. The three whales were swimming, blowing and splashing on the surface, both in and out of the kelp bed. This activity lasted about 10-15 minutes. I lost sight of the juvenile. The two larger whales broached together and exited the kelp bed with a long, single strand of bull kelp draped over each of their heads like the starting line of a race. They swam away to the south, side by side, as though leaving a starting gate. The kelp strand simultaneously slid over the head, dorsal fin and back of each whale as they arched below the surface and disappeared.
Doug Bell, Livermore, CA
*
Orca Network received a report report from from Travis Drasca, of 4-5
orcas
, including one male, at Littleriver State Beach, 7 miles south of
Mendocino CA
, 2 PM. The whales, seen from shore, were 5-700 yards from shore at the mouth of the bay, heading North.
*
I took pictures around

11:00 am
off the
California
coast at
Elk
. We had finished abalone diving and were fishing for ling cod in 70-80 feet of water when we spotted the
orcas
. We were in between two different groups, one to the west in deeper water and the group near shore. Both groups were heading north, the inside group did make a few moves toward shore around some large wash rocks with sea lions around it.
Ryan Carner
*
We saw this
gray whale
feeding in Maple Cove around
7 pm
. This whale stayed in the area for well over an hour foraging very close to shore. We have many pictures of spouts, flippers and flukes.
Phil & Debby Ellis, Coupeville, WA
*
Astrid van Ginneken, Erin Heydenreich, Mackenzie Consoer, & Stewart Macintyre of the Center for Whale Research staff encountered
K pod and a few L's
off Eagle Point (48° 26.904 N, 123° 01.866 W) at

11:20 a.m.
. The whales were spread out from shore to the middle of Haro Strait traveling north. Around

1:30
the whales turned around and began traveling south at False Bay. Most of K pod was seen and documented along with some members of
L pod
. The encounter ended at

3:36 p.m
. when the whales began traveling south at a fast pace, just southwest of Cattle Point (48° 26.255 N, 123° 57.373 W).
Shortly after Center for Whale Research vessel, Orca, arrived on scene, another Center vessel, Starlet, with CWR staff Dave Ellifrit, Kyla Graham, and John Durban, encountered
L pod
and a few members of
K pod
spread out in mid Haro Strait (48° 28.950 N, 123° 07.049 W) at
12:01 p.m. The whales were initially traveling north, then made a turn south at False Bay. Observers on Starlet followed the whales until

2:54 p.m
. as they continued traveling south just off American Camp on the west side of San Juan Island (48° 26.425 N, 123° 01.041 W). Most members of L pod that were present were observed and documented, however not all members of L pod were believed to be present. Late Saturday evening,
J, K, and L pod
grouped up and began traveling north. Ken Balcomb, encountered whales off Lime Kiln State Park (48° 31.36 N; 123° 10.16 W) at

8:10 pm
. Whales were traveling in tight groups as they continued to travel north past Henry Island. The encounter ended at
9:10 p.m. just west of Kellett Bluff, (48° 35.12 N; 123° 12.13 W).
Center for Whale Research.
*
We found
K pod
near Lime Kiln, heading towards Cattle Point (west San Juan Island). We stayed with them for close to an hour - and apparently
J pod
was heading towards the K's. Off to Orca Sing (at Lime Kiln park) and listened to the (human) singing which was wonderful. Then - whales started appearing and passed by, some quite close to shore.
J's, K's and some L's
(well over 50 whales passed the Lighthouse). I was on the hillside watching the people at the end of the bluff. All of a sudden there was a lot of finger pointing.Then an
orca
swam slowly by, then a pair, then another single, then 3 in close sequence. We kept on singing! Eventually
over 50 whales
swam by in a slow, majestic, procession.
Sandy Dubpernell, Coupeville, Whidbey Island
*
J's, K's and lots of L's
hung out off the south and west side of SJI most of the day before heading north out of sight from Land Bank after
9 pm
. They joined Orca Sing at Lime Kiln in the evening, with lots of surface activity. It was pretty cool watching from Land Bank, hearing the drifting sounds of singing and watching the orcas pass. I heard about spectacular passes at the light at Cattle Pass and South Beach from two separate sources. Apparently lots of orcas were in tight at the Cattle Pass light, something I have not yet been privileged to see. I did get to see some pretty interesting behaviors below Hannah Heights. Among them, two whales that appeared to be approximately the same size judging by fins, stopped traveling and started logging right in front of me. From my vantage point above them I could see that the girth of the mature female was at least 4 times the girth of the other whale. Also at Hannah, between 7pm and 8pm there appeared to be lots of mating type activity. Some charming female (or more?) enticed lots of big males, including
J1, L41, J27, J26, L57
, and at least several more sprouters. I couldn't tell who the female was, even tho' the activity lasted quite a while. She or they stayed down most of the time, barely surfacing for breath, as the males entered and left the swirling circle of activity. Lots of sea snakes.
Sharon Grace, San Juan Island
*
Noticed a group of
orcas
right at shore on south end of Lopez heading east at

7:30am
, one male, two females, two juveniles and a very small one. Lots of tail slaps by juveniles. Orcas going very slowly. Out further in the Straits were about 10 orcas - solo or in pairs. Then another group came through close to shore, one female, two juveniles, and another small one. Lots more tail slaps and breaches too. First group of orcas spent time fishing on the outside of Swirl Rocks. Orcas could be heard and seen
until 9 am
- and still no boats. Orcas headed out into the channel towards Whidbey. They did not head in around Colville. The sound of the blows continued to carry back. What a great visual and auditory summer solstice celebration - I'm hoping the whales enjoyed the peace surrounding their morning. Later: Orcas made another pass at the south end of Lopez, this was east to west. First spotted two females just off rocks by monument at Iceberg Point shortly after 10 am. Several others following slowly behind them. Whale boats caught up with them around
10:30am. So you should be getting id's from the boats.
Later:

3:15pm
south end of Lopez, orcas heading east to west, now around
3:40pm they have all grouped together and are swimming in formation, estimate 15-20.
And even later: Great orca viewing off Flint Beach, Lopez Island. Lots of tail slaps, rolls, gentle approaches.
Sally Reeve, Lopez Island
*
On the West Side (San Juan Island), because of the big ebb tide, [
orcas
] stayed in front of Snug Harbor, our dock, all
morning
and into the early
afternoon
. On the evening trip we took them through Active Pass and out into the St. of Georgia. It looked like there were heading toward Pt. Roberts, which would be good news for West Side viewing today.
Capt. Jim Maya, Maya's West Side Whale Watch Charters, San Juan Island
*
On the

8:10 pm
ferry from Bainbridge to Seattle, a gray (?) whale gave all of us the show of a lifetime. About midway, the captain announced gray whale off in the distance, slightly starboard, between us and and a westbound ferry. Several minutes later, with most of us at the bow watching, the whale came straight up (not just a breach) out of the water right in front of the bow. Then it dove going under the ferry. Standing on the starboard side at the bow, I could see it diving under. Needless to say, locals and tourists alike were in awe. As the captain said, "in 25 years, I've never seen anything like that."
Cynthia Wood
This may have been a humpback, not a gray - given the behavior of breaching up out of the water, which grays rarely do up here. Did anyone on that ferry happen to get any photos?! S&H
*
1440
pdt, One
humpback
(medium confidence, did not see fluke, definitely not a gray) whale sighted 1nm south of buoy SG, entrance to Elliott Bay ~47° 38.7N 122° 27.9W. Traveling westerly, sounded twice then dove, blew on second sound.
Robert Reeder
*
Orca Network received a report from Joanne Brayden, who was on the Bremerton/Seattle ferry when
just before noon
, between the ferry & Alki Pt. a small whale surfaced & spouted, with its back showing. It surfaced again - this time showing its flukes when it dove. The whale was gray colored, and when it surfaced they saw a hump as it showed its back, and the spout was visible.
This could either be the humpback whale that has been in the area, or possibly a gray whale - S&H
*
A confirmed
humpback
whale sighting this morning at

7:45
between Whidbey and Hat Island very close to Whidbey shore. Bill saw it "breach." And got a good look at the whole body.
Frances Wood, Whidbey Island
*
A
gray whale
came by feeding up and down the coast north of the ferry dock past Witter Beach (SE Whidey Island) very early this
morning
.
Sharon Wandler
*
Orca Network received a message from Mike Fitteo of
Fort Bragg, CA
, reporting 3
orcas
( 2 adults, 1 juve) a little south of Nooyah Harbor. They came within 20' of his fishing boat.

