Orca Sightings for January 11, 2019
============================================================

Entry 1:
SOUTHERN RESIDENTS - ..."Morning Star" spotted blows at the
northern end of Admiralty Inlet at 0930
, about a mile northeast of Point Wilson. It was
all of K pod
sleepily traveling northwest in a tight group. Everyone was accounted for,
including K25
. K25 remains thin, but it appears that his condition has not worsened. It wasn't long until more blows were seen a few hundred yards behind K pod. It was
all of L pod
grouped up and also slowly heading northwest. "Morning Star" moved from K pod to L pod to find the new calf. All of L pod was accounted for and
L77's new calf, L124, was confirmed at 0950
. The calf appeared to be about 3 weeks old and was bouncing around
between L25, L41, L77 L85, and L119
. A gender was not revealed during the encounter but there will hopefully be more opportunities in the future....Full summary report and photos at Center for Whale Research Encounter 2.
*
Here is a baby picture of
L124
, the youngest living SRKW friskily following
L25
, the oldest living SRKW. -Photo by Dave Ellifrit, Center for Whale Research, Senior photo-identification analyst
*
Brand new little one
L124 with mom L77 in Juan de Fuca Strait. K25
center...he was in the middle of big cuddle puddle. Active and keeping with the others from what I saw.
J19 "Shachi," L89 "Solsitce"
and Mt. Baker.
J16 "Slick"

Entry 2:
*
Fri Jan 11 - Juan de Fuca Strait - There's not a whole lot we can say about days like today because words really don't do them justice. Watching all of the Southern Resident killer whales come together to socialize and play was a beautiful thing to witness, even more so because we couldn't help but feel like they were celebrating the arrival of the newest member of their community---
L124
. Days like these inspire us to carry on in our fight to protect these whales and remind us to cherish every, single moment. -Maya's Legacy WW
*

Entry 3:
~

9:30 - J vocals
still faintly audible on
Lime Kiln hydrophone
.

07:54 - Orcas still echolocating on Lime Kiln
. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

08:37 -
For 45 minutes
J17 was the only whale I could see from lime kiln
. Just now spotted another. Way off shore maybe three miles. I can hear them too. They are coming down. I was /am worried fro Princess Angeline because she is really far off from the others. At the moment anyway.

07:01 -
Hearing lots of
echolocation clicks
. And I am hearing lots of cavitation sounds. And I think there are Ts in the area too. Echo clicks and Ts are not common to hear, so maybe both Js and Ts are in the area

06:20 - J Pod on the Limekiln hydrophones
. They are passing by getting quiet. I don't know direction. -Jeanne Hyde
*

Entry 4:
Admiralty Inlet -

07:07 -
I just heard what sounded like few distant vocals, but not sure who. On
Bush Point hps
. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

06:28 -
Hearing faint - maybe
L pod calls on Bush Point hydro
. I
first heard then around
5:05
, but then we're drowned out for close to an hour by tug traffic. -Connie Bickerton
*

Entry 5:
T124D with her 2nd offspring T124D2 off Fort Casey
, Whidbey Island as they exit Puget Sound. T124D, her offspring, and her niece T124A2 along with her offspring travel together and have spent much time in Puget Sound over the past month. -Photo by Rachel Haight, Jan 11, 2019
(
ID by Sara Hysong-Shimazu
)
*
T124D -
Beautiful orca sighting at
Ft. Casey
in the silvery winter sunshine. About 6 in two groups, heading northbound. -Photos by Bonnie Gretz, Jan 11, 2019
(
IDs by Sara Hysong-Shimazu
)
*
The
T124A2s and T124Ds, T124D and T124D1
(group of 6+ whales) were seen from
Fort Casey
this afternoon - close to Fort Casey - what a thrill. These whales were heading NW towards the Strait of Juan de Fuca, out past Pt. Wilson, around

2:15 pm
. The
T137s were on the east side of Whidbey this morning
, surrounded by T's today!! -Jill Hein
*

13:37 - Close to Whidbey, Ft Casey, NB
.... south of Lighthouse. -Bonnie Gretz
*

13:25 - Orcas.
A couple females and a calf
south of Port Townsend ferry
, Keystone side headed north. Too far away to see (IDs), I was on the ferry. -Christopher Hanke
*

13:09 -
Ok - at least
4 orcas approaching Port Townsend ferry!

13:02 -
There's at least one orca way out from the Port Townsend ferry. So maybe heading this way! -Donna George
*
~

12:30 -
We saw
two pods of Orca
off of Whidbey Island today (1/11/19) - one pod of 4 including a larger male out in the channel
between Keystone and Fort Flagler
. This group appeared to be heading north at about
12:30....S. Thomas & S. Flaherty, Port Townsend, WA
*

12:15 -
Paula Ratcliffe called from
Lagoon Pt
- she was watching the pod of
orcas
, heading N, mid channel. She counted
7 or 8
, with one male with a huge fin, several females and juveniles. She said there were seals in the water not fleeing or acting nervous.
*

11:38 - Counted five
in a tight group, no adult males. Looks like three juveniles.

11:25 - several orcas heading out Admiralty Inlet, about a mile south of Bush Pt
., Whidbey side. -Howard Garrett, Orca Network
*

Entry 6:
Saratoga Passage - T137s
(
ID notes by Jill Hein: I first spotted them through my scope, they were about 5+ miles away, and thought there were 5. When closer, only saw 4. Didn't get a photo of 137A, but saw his 'nicks' through the scope. My pics are very distant.
)
*
...And another
(pod) in Penn Cove
consisting of a large male and two females or immature males @ around

1:30
. This group stayed in the cove area for about an hour. The
large male in Penn Cove
appeared to have an oblong triangular patch of white on his dorsal fin, but it was at a distance and we did not have binoculars. May have been a reflection, but we consistently saw it in the same location on the fin each time he surfaced. Do you know if the individual id guide can be found online? I've seen the app, but don't have space to download it...Thanks so much for all you do for Orca! -S. Thomas & S. Flaherty, Port Townsend, WA
*

11:37 -
Just passed
Madrona beach
! Heading North. One has a very tall, skinny dorsal fin. -Tracy Stevens
*
Photos taken from my deck this morning on
Eagle Crest on Camano
, across from Shangri-La on Whidbey. They were heading north on the Whidbey side, I saw a spyhop among
3 orcas
, then suddenly a tugboat passed and
a big male
headed over to check it out and passed closer to Camano. I got a few pics of him before he turned and headed back north towards Penn Cove. Is it T137A? So sorry, the photos are so poor.

11:47 - Got a photo of the big male,
I think it's Jack, T137A

11:31 - Orcas.
Marcie Goldberg has them now, a group of 2 and a group of 3.

11:29 - 3-5 orcas just past Eagle Crest on Camano
across from Shangri-La on Whidbey heading north. -Kristina Trowbridge
*

11:16 -
Just seen at
Camano island Yacht Club
boat launch. Headed NW. -Tasha Fisher
*

11:03 - orcas
have been on a kill for awhile at
Shangri la
. Many gulls flew in afterwards. Looks like they're just resuming travel northbound.

10:35 - orcas
slowly northbound midchannel at
Shangri La Shores
...all I can say is
I think 5
... I admit, I've been super distracted by all the cute harbor seals swimming at my feet that have taken refuge while the transients hunted. -Rachel Haight
*

10:02 - Orcas.
From my view they're just approaching
Cama Beach, northbound
, mid-channel.
4 or 5 of them, one male
. Too far to confirm any ID's. -Jill Hein
*

09:52 - Orcas
. Lots of splashing near
Cama Beach
. Now appear to be heading northbound again, past Cama Beach. Closer to Camano side. -Rachel Haight
*

09:36 - Orcas
(3-4 incl. 1 male) have passed
Camano State Park
and are heading northbound towards Cama Beach. It is so beautiful out. -Marilyn Armbruster
*

09:17 - At least 2 Orcas in Elger Bay.
..I guess you would say milling. They were heading north, then south, then finally headed north. -Tami Fifield
*
On
January 11th staff and students of Ocean Research College Academy (ORCA) encountered North Puget Sound
gray whale CRC 53 off Hat Island
. Photos taken by students courtesy of Ardi Kveven, Executive Director.
(
ID confirmed by John Calambokidis & Alie Perez, Cascadia Research
)
*
About

9:15 this morning
, arrived at the
Camano Island SP
beach area to walk dogs. Walked SE through parking area and as we got to the beach trail, heard some blows by the kelp beds that wrap around into
Elger Bay
. Thought it might be porpoise but then saw a very tall dorsal fin and several other smaller ones, but definitely bigger than porpoise. The pod was swimming NW along the beach, so we walked on the beach trail a bit behind them to observe. Looked like
one big healthy male and 2 very small ones and about 5 or so others of varying sizes
in between. The 2 babies were staying close to their moms. Now and then the male turned perpendicular to the group and did some shallow dives. They moved as either a bunched group or fanned out until their noses lined up. They moved rapidly NW in the middle of Saratoga Passage using long dives interspersed with shallow surface dives. It all took about 10 minutes before they were out of sight. No one else was at the beach, although one small boat launched and headed right over the top of where they had just gone down for a long dive. Don't think that boater saw them. -Jeanne Johnson
*

Entry 7:
two whales, in Hood Canal
. On the east side of the canal. Very odd because Killer Whales used to go up and down on the other side of the canal, near Shine (I used to watch them all the time!), but this was odd because they were on this side (the east side) AND, they were a light muddy brown colour, kinda like if you had a light tan. Just a couple of undulating humps. No big dorsal fin, so I'm sure these weren't Killer Whales, but what were they? I was thinking Sea Lions, which is also a bit unusual, because we have Harbour Seals out here, but not many Sea Lions, but thinking back, they were very large for Sea Lions. This was in the late morning, a couple of days ago. Heading north, about a 1/2 mile from the bridge... thanks for the chart.
That pic of the Sea Lion is exactly the colour
of what I saw, but all I saw were slow moving "lumps" in the water, so, hard to judge size. Its weird because I'm used to seeing them 2 miles away, on the other side of the canal. The feeling I have is that they were larger than a Killer Whale (based mostly on how slow they were moving. I remember Killer Whales were a bit more energetic in their movements)...
maybe that Minke Whale?
...but tan coloured, like the pic of the Sea Lion. Sorry I can't be of more help. -Dean Seaman
*

Entry 8:
January 12th Whale Sighting Report). We first saw [
orcas
] from the
shoreline along Coopville
. They were ~ 1/4 mile off shore, about half way in to the cove heading west, then east and back out to roughly the half way point. We had 4 good sightings over about 45 minutes. -Sue Thomas
*

Entry 9:
Gray whale #53 off Hat Island.
"...The students took these photos for confirmation. This is the first time I've seen grays in January..." -Ardi Kveven, ED, Ocean Research College Academy (ORCA)
(
Confirmed by John Calambokidis & Alie Perez, Cascadia Research. See summary for John's statement and photo of the day for more images
)

