Orca Sightings for May 15, 2009
============================================================

Entry 1:
A friend said he saw about
20 orcas
at
Octopus Point on Vancouver Island
about
3 pm
, heading North. They were jumping and playing. Is this possible? Whom might it have been?
Tamar , Salt Spring Island
Maybe this was the large Transient group we've had other reports of from the 15th? sb
*
Center for Whale Research staff Dave Ellifrit and Erin Heydenreich responded to
J and K pod calls
heard on the Lime Kiln hydrophone, early morning.
J pod and the K13's
were encountered off Hannah Heights (48° 32 24 N, 123° 10 14 W) on the west side of San Juan Island at

9:39 a.m
. The whales were spread out in groups, traveling North. The whales later came together in a tight group and began resting off Mitchell Bay. The encounter ended at

11:45 a.m
. with the whales moving slowly north at (48° 35 03 N, 123° 12 27 W).
*
After leaving
J pod and the K13's
off
Mitchell Bay
, we recieved a report of
20 plus transients
off Beaver Point on Saltspring Island B.C. At approximately

1:30 p.m
., the
T18's, T20's, T101's, T100's and the T124's
were encountered by Dave Ellifrit and Erin Heydenreich of the Ctr. for Whale Research, the whales were traveling in a tight group up
Satellite Channel
(48° 44 329N, 123° 22 990W). The encounter ended with the whales split up into groups heading toward the
Swanson Narrows
at
3:23 pm (48° 45 350N, 123° 34 163W).
From Center for Whale Research
*
As soon as the we left the 20 some transients up in Satellite Channel, B.C., we recieved another report of
more transients
off the southern end of
Sidney Island
. The
T2's
and the
T123's
were spotted off
Kelp Reef in Haro Strait
(48° 32 169N, 123° 16 213W) at

4:31 p.m.
They were traveling south in a tight group. At
4:49 the group of T's quickly killed a harbor porpoise. The 3rd encounter of the day ended at

5:01 p.m.
, with the T2's and T123's continuing south at 48° 30 989N, 123° 15 447W.
Dave Ellifrit and Erin Heydenreich, Center for Whale Research
*
Thought I'd send an
orca
photo from Friday,

Entry 2:
. This was taken from shore on the west side of San Juan Island, near Smuggler's Cove. The orcas were traveling in a tight formation, so it was especially thrilling to see them on Friday.
Jane Cogan
*
7 orcas
for sure, but there seemed to be more -maybe 8 or 9, between

8:00 pm and
8:45 pm,
travelling south close in to the shore along south eastern
Vancouver Island
, from Porter's Creek estuary (south of Ladysmith which is south of Nanaimo), down and across the mouth of Chemainus Harbour , close in around Bare point, and then directly over to the northern end of the Shoal Islands off the Chemainus River estuary where they stopped for quite some time. Likely feeding - Moving quickly, then slowing to circle, diving, jumping occasionally, tail splashing . Settled at tide line off northern shoal islands for 20 mins. and may have stayed longer but we left. Two very large fins led the group, out front about 300 feet. One was larger than the other and led slightly in front. Then a third whale joined them at times. Also in the following group whales amongst the smaller fins there was one very small (about 6' long) whale.
Jane Walton, Vancouver Island, B.C.
*
We picked up a huge group of
transients
thataround
beaver point
.
Gary Sutton, Naturalist, Wild Whales Vancouver
*
Amazing
day with T's
today. Dave Ellifrit was also there representing the Center for Whale Resarch, so I'm sure you will get a fantastic report from him too. When our boats passed close, he was just grinning from ear to ear and rattling off ID's. I think he was in T heaven! A group of
approx 8 Transient Orca
s was located on the east side of Prevost Island at approx

12:30
today.
T102
was clearly recognizable in the group, along with several females and juveniles. They were travelling at about 8 knots, heading south. Then, off a ways to the south there were many more blows spotted. We had heard that J Pod was headed North, and the immediate reaction was that we were going to have a near pass of Resident and Transient Orcas. As we approached, the pointy tips of the dorsal fins, and the unmistakable lean of T19B's fin revealed there were even more T's in the area. I can't give you an exact count of the number as the various groups kept joining up, then seperating, but I would estimate there were
about 20 whales
altogether. The whales we ID'ed on scene and after the fact from photos were the T18's, T20 & T21, T100's, T101's and the T124's. A photo of T124D and company travelling together is attached. The Center for Whale Research was also on scene, so I am positive they will have a complete list of the whales that were present. We did see one kill during the time we spent with the T's - likely a seal as there was not much fuss at the surface, except for the seagulls looking for scraps. There was some social activity, some breaches and tailslaps, however, no vocals were heard. When we left the whales, most of the group was headed southwest, along the south side of Saltspring Island. What a magnificent show of power to have so many T's travelling together.
Joan Lopez, Naturalist, Vancouver Whale Watch
*
I took another trip Friday on the Ocean Magic at
3.30pm
, and conditions were even better than in the morning. Flat calm waters in Haro Strait with no wind. We encountered
T123's
and their tiny calf. Also the
T2's
that were with the T123's. The research boat monitoring them at the time gave me the info as to who we were watching. We had encountered the T's
west of Kelp Reef at 4.30 pm
and they were heading south in
Haro Strait
.
Marie O'Shaughnessy, Orca-Magic POW
*
A lovely, calm, sunny day on the water! From about

1:15pm to
2:15pm
, we watched
J-Pod
very slowly swimming north across
Open Bay, off of San Juan Island
, against the ebbing tide. They were bunched up into 2 close, tight groups. A beautiful sight to see all those fins coming up together and one after another, with glimpses of
J-44 & J-45
tucked in the middle. Their yellowy- orangey patches really stand out! The Orcas seemed to be resting, almost treading water in the same area for quite awhile, then there was some tail lobbing from a few trailing whales and a surprise flash of a "pink floyd"! Reports were of
a few of K-Pod with J-Pod
. At about 2pm they seemed to wake up, changed direction heading fairly fast south, then they all dove for a few minutes, came up, turned back north, picking up speed as they swam toward Stuart Island. I can only imagine the 'conversation' that took place in deciding the directional changes! Lots of rotund harbor seals sharing space with 3 adult & 2 young eagles- feeding on a fish- on Sentinel Rocks, further awing our visitors with the diversity of wildlife that call the Salish Sea home!
Caroline Armon, San Juan Excursions
*
We encountered
J pod
in resting formation off
Kellett Bluff, Henry Island
at
12 noon
. They were really bunched up together which was amazing to see. They headed slowly north against an ebbing tide. Conditions were fantastic. Saw Ruffles and Granny.
Marie. Orca-Magic Prince Of Whales
*
We arrived on scene
between Henry and Stuart Island around
1:40 pm
to find what appeared to be all of
J pod
moving in one tight knit group and travelling in a resting pattern. The group moved slowly along. They had no particular destination in mind, switching directions at will. Distinct members of the pod, like -
J26 (Mike), J27 (Blackberry), J1 (Ruffles), the two babies (!), and J30 (Riptide)
, swam amongst the pod. J pod also made the viewing pleasant because of their slow travel and tight knit group.
Ashley Chapman, Naturalist, San Juan Safaris
*
Beam Reach called in a report at
2 pm
- they were near the entrance to
Speiden Channel
, and had been with
J pod & the few K's
that have been with them, from

9:30
this morning at Lime Kiln, heading N/NW with lots of resting.
*
Orcas (likely
J pod
) traveling N at
Hannah Heights
with calls audible on Lime Kiln and Orcasound hydrophones at
9 am
.
Sharon Grace, San Juan Island
*
Calls on
Lime Kiln Hydrophones
8:47 am
.
Cathy Bacon, Texas
*
Shari Tarantino emailed a couple reports of calls on the
Lime Kiln hydrophoness
at

8:15 and
8:50 am
.
Eric McRae
*
Ken Balcomb of the Center for Whale Research called to report
Transients
at
Kelp Reef
at

4:35 pm
.
*
Hillary from Beam Reach called to say that a pod of orcas reported earlier in the day in Active Pass were
Transients
, at

2:15 pm
they were in
Swanson Channel
.
*

7:30 pm:
2 adults and 4 (at least) young
Orcas
in
Stuart Channel
at the opening of Ladysmith Harbour seen coming in from the North and going south in the channel toward Chemainus.
Jane
*
We just got a report of three large
killer whales
off the NE end of
Fox Island
traveling north towards the Narrows Bridge. The report came from Priscilla Spiker who saw the animals around

11:30
. She said that they were very surface active.
Annie Douglas, Cascadia Research Collective
*
Orca Network received a call from Eric, reporting two
orcas
in
Sequim Bay
at
night
.
*
Sally Bigger called to report 1
Gray whale
heading into
Holmes Harbor
, very close to shore at Beverly Beach at

7:20 pm
, then turning & heading by again on its way out of the Harbor at
7:45 pm.
*

6:20 p.m.
Baby Island Heights (near
Holmes Harbor
entrance). One gorgeous
Gray
feeding just 20 ft. off shore, presently swimming towards Baby Island.
Nancy Nolan, whidbey Island
*
Around

6:30 pm
watched a single
Gray Whale
leisurely rolling in the shallows off
Mabana
on Camano Island exposing flipper and fluke. It was slowly traveling in a northwesterly direction into the low settling sun's reflection. It hung around for around forty minutes and moved on.
Nancy Otis and Christopher Brown

