Orca Sightings for June 21, 2009
============================================================

Entry 1:
Gayle Dinsmore called Orca Network to report
3 orcas
(1 male, 2 females) heading north
70 miles south of Monterey, CA
a few hundred yards offshore.
*
Saw two babies, one breaching, tail slapping, and lots of dorsal fins of that
J pod and part of L pod
just after
noon
, while two spyhopping directly in front of us standing at
lime kiln state park
as though to state we're back and notice you all standing by awaiting-thanks!
Brian, a hooked whale watcher
*
The rest of
L and K pods
arrived at
Active Pass
at

2:30 PM
still heading south to meet up with Js, L12s and the two Ks.
J pod
was up at the Fraser River and from

8:30 PM to
9:05
they slowly travelled by
Point Roberts
with some foraging. Once all the socializing declined all three pods were heading back North towards Point Roberts. From
8:58 to
9:20 some of the orcas were seen off Point Roberts.
Peter Hamilton, LifeForce, Pt. Roberts
*
The orcas were in or very close to
Mutiny Bay
, Whidbey Island at around
3pm
. I believe there were at least 7 or 8 of them. There was one "baby" that looked very new. A couple of them have some pretty distinctive notches in their dorsal fins so maybe that could help to identify them. I was comparing my pictures to the dorsal fins on Transient KWs of BC & SE Alaska and I think the one with the two notches in its fin might be
TO36C
.
Lindsey McCune
I had a look at Lindsey McCune's photos of the transients (off Whidbey Island) and she definitely had the
T36's
. Simon Pidcock, Ocean Ecoventures
Jared Towers of Canada's Cetacean Research Program, Pacific Biological Field Station has further ID's on the Transient orcas photographed off S. Whidbey Island
June 21st: The animals I can confirm are as follows.
T036, T036B, T036C, T099, and T099B. T099A
is likely there as well but can't confirm it at low resolution. Jared Towers, Cetacean Research Program, Pacific Biological Station
*
After watching several whales pass by the Center and receiving various reports of more whales up north, Ken Balcomb, Howard Garrett, Erin Heydenreich, Emma Foster and Basil Von Ah of the Center for Whale Research, departed onboard both Orca and Starlet. At approximately

4:10 p.m.
both vessels encountered
J, K, and L pods
travelling in tight groups up Boundary Pass (48째 44.495 N; 123째 07.195 W) . It appears that
all members of the three pods were present, totaling 86 whales
. The encounter ended at

6:30 p.m
. The whales were traveling tight in two groups and continued north up Boundary Pass (48째 44.877 N; 123째 05.293 W).
Center for Whale Research
*
We saw an incredible display by
J Pod
at

1:45 to
2:15pm
. We first spotted the dorsals just North of
American Camp
on the West side of San Juan. The pod was moving north, in small group of 3 or 4 spread out along maybe a 1/4 quarter mile. Whales were close to shore, sometime within 10 feet just south of False Bay. The males and some younger whales really put on the show with dual spy hops, cartwheels, full breaches by the younger whales and lots of tail slapping. Mike, Alki and Blackberry were identified by the naturalist on aboard. Very interesting was the identification of a male, Mega, from L Pod and the naturalist thought there may have been some mating outside of False Bay. First hand viewing seemed to confirm this may have been the case. J Pod continued North toward Lime Kiln when we left and turned South.
Jennifer Parker, Seattle
*
We spent our afternoon on the northwest corner of San Juan Island in Speiden Channel with Southern Resident Orcas from
J & L pods
! J pod was just passing
Henry Island
and playing in a rip or current where presumbably they were fishing. They were very active - changing direction, tail slapping, and even some logging at the surface by 1 or 2 whales. They continued north forming tight groups and picked up speed with a few Orcas porpoising out of the water with force. Then slowing again - more activity - even a few breaches! The
L12
subgroup was not far behind also traveling north.
Jaclyn, naturalist, Crew At San Juan Safaris Whale Watch Wildlife Tours
*
At least 5, as many as 8 or 10
orcas
were observed off of Pipers Lagoon Park in
Nanaimo
. (124 56 42 W, 49 13 40 N). One very large whale (~4 to 5 ft. dorsal fin), 2 small babies, 2 or more juveniles, traveling northwest,
2 pm
.
Adam Compton
*
There were at least
20 Orca Whales
spotted on the west side of
Lopez Island
between

11:00 to
1:00
.
Theresa Borrodell
*
Three
minke
whales viewed in very close proximity feeding in
Salmon Bank
around
3pm
. All whales seen no further than 200 feet from the boat. Whales viewed for 5 minutes before heading to Anacortes.
Jennifer Parker, Seattle
*
Howard Garrett, calling from the Center for Whale Research on west San Juan Island reported the
L12s
heading north off Eagle Pt. and
J pod
off Iceberg Pt. heading south at

10:30 am
. Orcas also reported off Salmon Bank at
10:55. At
1:10 pm, J pod & the L12s were passing the Center heading north. At
2:30 pm the Center received reports that the orcas up north were now in Active Pass, heading south, so it looks like a Superpod is in the making! Update: Howard joined Ken Balcomb and the Center for Whale Research staff in heading up to see the superpod - they encountered them at approx.

4:10 pm
off the NW tip of
Stuart Island
, and left them at about

6:25 pm
south of Saturna Island, as all three pods headed north toward Boundary Pass. Ken Balcomb reported that they had looked through all their photos & film from the superpod encounter, and
all known whales in the Southern Resident Orca community were present and accounted for
- great news for Orca Month!!
*
We heard
J-Pod
was slowly working their way north near
Kellett Bluff
. Soon (
1330
) we were watching J-Pod actively working the tide rips in search of salmon near Kellett Bluff. Lots of direction changes as the whales did their thing, sometimes maintaining their position by swimming into the current. We saw several spyhops, tail slaps, and I was especially excited to see my "buddy" J1 Ruffles. We also saw
J30
Riptide, and one of the new moms (her saddle was hidden by the waves in the riptide). But the day suddenly got even better. We had heard reports of a group of unidentified whales passing Campbell River last night around 1800. We got a report from a friend that a large group of "maybe Transients" had just made it through Active Pass. Soon (
1430
) we were off of Prevost Island and saw fins. LOTS OF FINS. Before we knew it, whales started breaching everywhere! Not acting like Transients, we soon thought--Residents?? And that's when we began to make some IDs,
L78
(Gaia),
L72
(Racer),
L7
(Canuck),
K26
(Lobo), K16 (Opus),
K21
(Cappucino), and
K40
(Raggedy). We left the whales heading South in
Swanson Channel
near Thieves Bay at 1500.
John Boyd (JB), Marine Naturalist, Western Explorer, Friday Harbor
*
Very loud calls on Orca Sound hydrophones. Sounds like
Jpod
. There are clicks also. Time is
1326
.
Cathy Bacon, Texas
*
1430: J pod
widely spread out and moving north. Nice vocals (calls and clicks) on the
OrcaSound
hydrophone.
Val Veirs, San Juan Island
*
Well over a dozen
orcas
headed west from
Aleck Bay
toward Iceberg Point at about

10:30
this morning. Their travel pace was pretty relaxed but they made sure to give a show on the way: a couple nice breaches, some tail slaps and several spy hops.
Tom Reeve, Lopez Island
*
Just reporting a sighting of a pod of
Orcas
right off
Mutiny Bay
on
Whidbey Island
. It was about
3pm
. They were heading towards Seattle initially but then turned around and appeared to be circling in the shipping channel. We aren't familiar with the various pods but this one seemed to include at least
7 whales
, including one baby and another younger (1 year old?) one. They were traveling then would stop, play and go in various directions. They seemed to be feeding on something-we saw lots of fish on our fish finder and some [porpoise] in the distance but couldn't really see what they were eating.
Caron McCune
*
Jeff Dodd of Langley called this afternoon to report a sighting of
4 orcas
from the
Port Townsend/Keystone ferry
at
1 pm
. It appeared to be 4 females, milling off Pt. Hudson, between Pt Hudson & Pt. Wilson. They were about 1/4 mile from a large bait ball and some seals - not sure, but a guess would be these are Transients, likely the group reported last night off west Whidbey.
*
Got a chance to take my little girl out to see the
gray whales
for the first time in her life. They are still around the northern section of West Beach RD heading south. I realize you already received a great picture from a spotter but I was able to catch both the bigger whale and the calf coming up to spout in unison. Unfortunately I was on the shore and they were 100 yards or so out.
William Ingram
*
We watched
2 gray whales
for half an hour around

3:30 pm
at the pull-out south of Swan lake on
West beach road on Whidbey Island
. They were swimming side by side, hanging out in the same area close to shore and then slowly moved South and away from shore some more. We never saw their flukes.
Liz Brown

