Orca Sightings for March 18, 2018
============================================================

Entry 1:
J pod & L87
came down from the north. Here is a lovely bundle of members tightly grouped passing
Mayne Island, BC
while southbound in the
Strait of Georgia
this morning. -Photo by Yves Tiberghien,

Entry 2:
6:15 p.m. -
some beautiful calls on Lime Kiln hydrophone as
J pod and L87
head south down the
west side of San Juan Island.
-Susan Berta, Orca Network
*
After getting out on the water with
J-Pod
this afternoon, we got to listen to them on the
hydrophones
for quite a long time this evening. Interesting note: while they sound fairly close to the
Lime Kiln hydrophone
where this was recorded, they were actually on the far side of Haro! Here's an AUDIO CLIP. -Monika Wieland Shields
*
On the morning of
March 18th word came in of
lots of whales southbound in the Strait of Georgia. J-Pod
had been up north for over a week; could this be them finally coming back down? Luckily for me there was still space available for Maya's Legacytrip out that afternoon to go and see! We headed north in nice calm waters to Boundary Pass, and it didn't take us long to spot our first fin:
J27 Blackberry. J16 Slick and J50 Scarlet in Boundary Pass. J26 Mike this afternoon in Boundary Pass
. So great to see residents again! -Photo by Monika Wieland Shields,

Entry 3:
*
J Pod
showed up today only 20 minutes from our office! We had to head out and spend some time with them. They have just spent about 2 weeks up in the Strait of Georgia so hopefully they found lots of fish!
J27 Blackberry. J22 Oreo.
-Photo by Gary Sutton,

Entry 4:
*
This morning at
9am, two tight pods
came in the same way as ten days ago: closer to shore, heading East toward Saturna - in the middle of the Strait of Georgia. Here are the photos. Can you recognize them? Some are standing. I am very impressed by the super tight family formation in one group (where you see one pod...I thought there were
8 in one pod and 3-4 in the other
(which was further and more in front). -Yves Tiberghien (Mayne island, BC, Straight of Georgia)
*
Bigg's/Transient killer whales
-

Entry 5:
T2Cs -

5:30-
5:57p.m. -
now spread out 2 - midchannel nearer ft Casey and 2-3 nearer
Ft Ebey
close to Whidbey side viewing from Pt Wilson. -Donna
*

5:53 p.m -
They are just circling in that area in beautifully calm seas

5:40 p.m. -
They drifted back towards
Pt Wilson
. Between there and channel marker. Not going anywhere. Long down times like up to 8+ minutes sometimes.

5:25 p.m. -
They hit the marker west of
Point Wilson
, moved directionally a little towards mid channel and now have stalled or flipped. Still in Jefferson County side

5:00 p.m. -
seeing blows and dorsals approaching channel marker just
west of Point Wilson
heading westbound into Strait of Juan de Fuca. Exiting Admiralty. Viewed from bluffs above Ebeys Landing across Inlet. -Alisa
*
Here they are exiting
Port Townsend Bay, taken from the rocks on Pt. Wilson
. Near Point Wilson in Fort Worden just before they went around the lighthouse to head toward the San Juans. -Photo by Aki VA,

Entry 6:
*
They just headed out at
five pm
...past the lighthouse left with a tail slap like they were saying goodbye. They were amazingly close to shore! They were on the PT side for several hours - we first spotted them in front of us at
Point Hudson
. They followed the shoreline and passed just below us at the Science Center pier. Then followed the beach around at Fort Worden, and headed out at the lighthouse. They were logging and feeding north of the orange ferry bouy for quite some time. -Tammy Shelton
*

4:58 p.m. -
Wow, what a gift.
5 killer whales
travelling along the beach at
Fort Worden
. Large male, 3 females? 1 juv? Just rounded PT Wilson heading north. -Liz Hoenig Kanieski
*

4:45 p.m. - 4 orcas
right off the pier at
Fort Worden
, headed to point Wilson now. Swimming very slowly. 3 are keeping together and one large delaying behind. -Emilee Carpenter
*
T2Cs -
4:30 p.m. -
I was visiting
port Townsend
and we saw a family of orcas. There was a male and female and at least 2-3 babies. The sifting attracted a lot of people you can also check it out on the marine science center Facebook page. Traveling , one of the kept falling behind and the others would come back to find it . They were very close to the shore and passed right by the pier. -Photo by Mahwish DeSilva,

Entry 7:
*

4:28 p.m. - Orcas in Ft Worden now maybe 4-5
. Taken from pier. -Photo by Alexandra Redman,

Entry 8:
*

3:40 p.m. -
I thought I saw 3 (male, female, and baby?) headed north just off
Chetzemoka Park, Port Townsend
. -Photo by Linda Hanlon,

Entry 9:
*

3:38 p.m. - Just north of Chetzemoka Park - watching 5
from the playground area! -Annie Burks
*

3:10 p.m. - 3 possibly, 4 orcas Point Hudson
north of orange buoy. Looks like they are feeding or logging...Port Townsend side. -Tammy Shelton
*

2:17 p.m. -
I just saw them in the ferry lane near
Port Townsend
, they are kind if just staying in one spot. Diving for quite a while and then popping back up. I've seen one big male and then three or four smaller ones. -Kim Walters
*
T2C Tasu
(born 1998) seen here with her youngest offspring
T2C4
(first seen early 2017) & her second offspring
T2C2 Tumbo
(born 2005). T2C1 Rocky (born 2002). T2C3 Lucy (born 2011) and her mom T2C. Port Townsend waterfront. -Photo by Kim Walters,

Entry 10:
(
ID by Melisa Pinnow, Center for Whale Research
)
*

1:00 p.m. -
Bonnie Gretz called to relay a report from her friend who said there are approximately
5 orcas
who appear to be southbound into
Admiralty near Port Townsend
area.
*

Entry 11:
Georgia Strait - Bigg's (Transient) Killer whales
spotted between
8 and 9am
hunting sea lions. The Orcas spent a few hours in the
Lambert channel, Hornby Island
, especially near Ford's Cove. A few different families were spotted. After a few kills,the whales continued northbound around 3pm.Pictures taken from my kayak.
T100?, T86A3, and T124D. T86A, T124D, and T86A1. T124A2 and T124A2A
. -Louis Jobidon
(
ID by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*
On
March 18, sighted
one Orca in between Sidney Spit and Sidney
heading north. Behavior: Traveling. -Robert Verwoord
*

Entry 12:
grays in Crescent Harbor this evening around 530 ish
. -Maria Reyes
*
Approx

11:30 -
I could see blows from the NEX on Whidbey Island. Look like they are
by Polnell Point
. Looks like
Grey whales
. -Grace Seidel
*

Entry 13:
Port Susan -
3:50 p.m. - 2 Grays
near Camano right now....Watching from the dock at Kayak Point. Almost appear to be feeding on Camano. To far to tell. No mistake in the heart shapeblows. -Nate Trujillo
*
...it probably indeed was just
2 big, 1 medium, and 2 or 3 juvenile grays
....they were a good two miles west of me, in the middle of the bay, maybe a little
closer to Camano Island than to Warm Beach
...
Between 2 and
2:30 PM
today...a group of three very large cetaceans with several smaller ones, at least two and possibly three of which I believe were their young, some of which I believe were harbor porpoises careening around them, spouting and milling around in the middle of the
relatively shallow Susan Bay (Port Susan), between Warm Beach (where I live) and Camano Island.
The big ones never rose very high above the surface, and I never saw a fluke or dorsal fin. They spouted huge spouts at irregular intervals of a minute or so. At one point, all three large ones breached the surface simultaneously, swimming north to south in formation at high speed, something I've never seen gray whales do (I have seen the winter gray whale migration along the Oregon coast several times), traveling from right to left in my field of view, and I got a clear look through the binoculars.
The largest of the three was a good 40 feet from the spout to a point on the back somewhere forward of the dorsal fin at the point where it fully finished submerging after 2-3 seconds with its back just barely out of water--that is, I never saw the dorsal fin, but there was at least 40 feet of back behind the spout before the dorsal fin, and the whale had resubmerged before the dorsal fin could emerge, this while swimming at high speed. Again, I never saw any of their flukes. -Philip Courier
*

Entry 14:
Jetty Island
probably the newcomer. Small/young whale. Very curious. Surfaced really close a few times! -Photo by Renee Beitzel,

Entry 15:
(
ID notes by Alie Perez, Cascadia Research: "Just finished taking this animal through the catalog, did not find it."
)
*
Pacific Coast Feeding Group gray CRC -185 over by Hat Island
today. -Photo by Tyler McKeen,

Entry 16:
*
Sunshine, blue skies,calm seas and whales! Today we spent time with
Sounders #21, #49, #53 and #383 feeding on the bounty of ghost shrimp around the shores of Hat Island
. These returning grays have found a secret niche of nutritious food known only to a few of them, which they seek out in the spring as they migrate north. Their presence is always a pleasure to behold, and we are truly fortunate to see these magnificent giants in our local waters every year. -Sandra Pollard, Author/Naturalist - Photo (below) Richard Snowberger, Crew.
*

11:30 a.m. - One gray off Jetty island
and
another at SE corner of Hat Isl
. -Lori Christopher
*

10:48 a.m. - #53 Little Patch and #49 Patch
together offshore just
north of Mukilteo
. -Renee Beitzel
*

10:36 a.m. - Grey whale just NE of the Clinton ferry
dock heading west. -Danielle Pennington
*
Posted

10:30 a.m. -
We have been watching them right n
orth of the Mukilteo ferry
for the last 20 minutes. (
two gray whales
- alb) -Carol Pom-Arleau
*
Dolphins -

Entry 17:
9:29 a.m. - Dolphins (Pacific white-sided) spotted across the Cape Mudge lighthouse at Campbell River
. -Photo by Penny Vandyke,

Entry 18:
Golden Gardens.
...maybe these are actually
dolphins
? There were
definitely two of them, possibly 3
. heading north, around

7:30pm
. -Video by Kristen Adamson,

Entry 19:
*
Dave Anderson, Cascadia Research notes on Kristen Adamanson video (originally reported as orcas): "It's impossible to tell from the video what dolphin species it is. The bodies look like they are too slender to be killer whales, but it
could be bottlenose, common, or Pacific white-sided dolphins
. Given the proximity to the Elliot Bay sighting, there is a
good chance these are the bottlenose dolphins
."
*

Entry 20:
Reported as Dall's porpoise but description fits Harbor porpoise - alb
)
Hi! My friend and I just drove over the
Hood Canal Bridge
and spotted
at least 7-8 porpoises
. We weren't able to get any photos. We also think they may have been feeding. There were many present in the same area and the water was pretty turbulent where they were, but glassy in other areas....We had thought Dall's because the dorsal fins were short and pointy, almost like a perfect triangle. Not much curve to them, and very small. They were black or very, very dark gray. -Allie Stote

