Orca Sightings for September 19, 2017
============================================================

Entry 1:
From the bluffs south of
Bush Point, Whidbey Island
, we stand in awe watching this breathtaking scene unfold before us as members of
J and L pods
pass northbound, in two large bunched up groups, their blows illuminated by the late afternoon September sun. What a beautiful surprise it was when they showed up for their first inland late Summer/early Fall 2017 foray into Puget Sound. We are so blessed they stayed overnight and hope they found plenty salmon during their time here. -Photo by Susan Berta, Orca Network,

Entry 2:
Useless Bay south towards Point No Point
(and beyond, most likely). They were actively feeding and there were even gulls around! I hope that means they were finding plenty of food. They continued to forage until the wake of a big container ship rolled through at which point they started surfing the wake and the juveniles nearby (
L113 and L121
) began breaching in the waves. Of course I wasn't ready with the camera but it will be forever ingrained in my mind. After that the whales began to slowly group up and socialize. They were EXTREMELY chatty. I'll message you a clip of that separately. At this point they were not directional, they would go north a bit and then come back south. They were still doing that when we started to leave the scene. As we did about 1/2 mile away Lpod grouped up and began porpoising together. Though distant it was amazing to see, especially those huge males!
Jpod
also grouped up and surfaced between us and Lpod in tight social groups, swimming north with purpose. They were social and playful as they went. We left them still heading north. -Sara Hysong-Shimazu
*

7:04 p.m. - Three groups of 5-7 about a 1/4 mile between each group just N of Bush Point
. -Kayli Ann Breitweiser
*
5-7 orcas
, including
at least three big males and a juvenile passed Bush Pt around
7:00
. -Elizabeth Skinner
*

6:56 - Julie reported
2 groups of orcas traveling north up Admiralty Inlet north of Bush Point
.
*

6:50 -
Patrick Scott at
Bush Point reports two groups of orcas headed north up Admiralty Inlet
.
*
Lisa Kois called at

6:45 to report many orcas heading north in Admiralty Inlet
, past Bush Pt, Whidbey Island.
*
Beautiful line of
residents heading northbound past Bush Point as darkness settles in on Admiralty Inlet
nestled beneath the Olympic Mountains. -Photo by Marilyn Armbruster,

Entry 3:
*

6:30 p.m. - Two pods traveling north bound 10 minutes apart passing Bush Point
in the middle of channel. Moving quickly. -Lorie & Guy Calkins
*

6:34 p.m. - Many many Rs in multiple groups moving north mid channel south of Bush Pt.

6:10 p.m. - large pod of orcas with several males heading N up Admiralty Inlet, 1 mile south of Bush Pt
. THIS TIME we believe they are the
Ls/Js
that have been hanging out in the Possession Triangle, finally heading north -

5:00 p.m. - - The 5 or so probable Ts came south in mid-channel down Admiralty Inlet
accompanied by well-behaved whale watch boats
to about even with Foulweather Bluff at the entrance to Hood Canal. At that point they turned about, making a wide U-turn and heading back north.
They should be approaching Bush Pt. light about now. Meanwhile the Ls and Js who had been milling and foraging for hours between Possession Point and Point No Point were still there at 5PM. Could it be that the Ts came within acoustic range of the Rs and decided it would be prudent to turn around and avoid an encounter? They often turn around so there's no way to know, but it was an interesting U-turn when they reached about 7-8 miles from the Residents.

4:20 pm - At least 8 orcas 1 mile south of Bush Pt
, headed N, close to Whidbey side. We THINK these are maybe the Ls/Js that were off Possession Pt. earlier (?), however we had reports of a pod coming SOUTH in Admiralty Inlet that we were expecting to be here about now - hoping someone on the boats that are with the whales will kindly post any IDs here and help us out! -Susan Berta and Howard Garrett, Orca Network
*

3:55 p.m. -
Noticed Victoria Clipper stopped
near Possession Point and could see multiple whales
. -Judith Lievesley
*

3:40 p.m. -
The
orca
I earlier reported swimming south toward
Point No Point (from Possession Point)
are now heading North toward Double Bluff, and it looks like the NOAA Research boat is off Double Bluff as well. I believe the orcas that were off Marrowstone earlier (turned out to be Ts) are headed down our way and may be approaching the Bush Point area.

3:32 p.m. -
Seeing distant whales from our home/office
S. of Bush Point
through the "Big Eyes" - the orcas we can see are swimming south toward
Point No Point
, but it could be the larger group is just milling/fishing in the "Possession Triangle" between Point No Point, S. Whidbey and Edmonds. -Susan Berta, Orca Network
*

3:08 p.m. -
Small group that is furthest north, circling, some heading South....From Dave Mackie County Park, Clinton (
south end Useless Bay
). -Kayli Ann Breitweiser
*

3:02 p.m. - Update, large Orca passing Eglon
mid channel heading north.

2:55 p.m. - Orca's passed Eglon Beach
heading North, Whidbey side. -Judith Lievesley
*

2:20 p.m. -
sighting of orcas from my living room, I see with my underpowered binoculars a pod of orcas off in the distance, there are
5 to 7
. They look like they're playing with lots of splashing going on. Looks like they're traveling north up Admiralty Inlet. I live in
Sandy Hook, Clinton on Cultus Bay
. There are several boats out there keeping their distance. So exciting! -Kathy Durham, Whidbey Island
*

2:10 p.m. -
they've all turned and are following Whidbey shore west/northwest.
West of Scatchet Head
.

1:40 p.m. -
close pass by at
Possession Point
state park headed West around the point. -Rachel Haight
*

2:20 p.m. - whales heading north from Possession in Admiralty Inlet.

1:30 p.m. -
Whales may have changed direction or perhaps stalled. Seeing two whales definitely heading west fairly quickly.

1:15 p.m. - watching from Possession
boat ramp. Whales bound for Mukilteo on east side. Spread out. NOAA present. -Sandra Pollard
*

1:04 p.m. - Seems orcas are moving north to southern tip of Whidbey Island.

12:56 p.m. -
Watching orcas feed from our home!
1/2 mile off Picnic Point
just south. (Picnic Point is south Lynnwood). -Lorraine Wilmoth
*
1235 -
Chilkat is just east of
Possession- confirmed Js and L's
! The train is stopped at the bottom of Sunset Ave in Edmonds so best to view from to the north. Also, it's raining so wear your gear. -Renee Beitzel
*

12:31 p.m. - One group, off south end Whidbey
. Heading slowly north on west side of channel.
Other group further north
look to be headed towards Clinton. -Karen Knight
*

11:45 a.m. - 8-9 orcas just north of Edmonds ferry
, heading north but spreading out. Several breaches. -Jennifer Wentworth
*

11:35 a.m. - large group in front of Edmonds ferry dock
heading north. -Carey Kirkland
*

11:30 a.m. -
Mike at WS Ferries relayed a report
at least eight orcas at the entrance to Possession Sound
, east of Possession Point, milling and heading all directions. Sounds like they're chasing fish!
*
Aboard the

11:10am Edmonds to Clinton ferry
: while still at port I see an adult male and a few others (including wee one) grouped up heading northbound south and west of the ferry terminal. I see another group closer inshore. Just as the ferry begins to depart I then see more (first just the blows) beyond the jetty off south end of the marina very close to shore (at least 4-5 separate blows). As we left the dock they were all south of us, with those furthest offshore off our bow...by the time we met up with them the others were now at our stern. I then ran to the back decks (squealing with excitement and telling all the passengers who we were seeing along the way) to watch spread out groups who I later learned included Js with the Ls heading steady northbound. People lined the interior windows and the outer decks to watche these beauties. As fate would have it, on my time to get away, I was gifted a crossing with these beloveds. Heart is a lot more full at this moment. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

11:10 a.m. - Headed north towards Edmonds ferry terminal
. Still on the far eastern channel. Chilkat is with them. -Carol Johnson DeRusha
*

10:54 a.m. - Another 12 headed toward Point Wells
. We have counted at least 21 headed north around 3/4 mile off shore.

10:40 a.m. - pod of 6 orcas
with one large male, plus 3 more stragglers just off Point Wells. (Town of Woodway). -Jim Devereaux
*

9:40 a.m. - watching from Bainbridge at Rolling Bay. Large group 15+ Orca.
Started off in tight group, traveling north swiftly in the outgoing current. At least 3 males. At least one little one. Just north of the light house, on mainland side. Then, lots of tail slapping and a few breaches. Stalled and split up now. Seem to be hunting in smaller groups. My guess would be SRKW's by straight fins. Too far to see any saddles or get photos through my scope. -Kimberly Sylvester-Malzahn
*

9:54 a.m. - small group of 5 just passed Golden Gardens
heading north

9:40 a.m. - 5-6 orcas now in sight line from Bainbridge
with fishing boats north of Golden Gardens. Lots of breaching activity

9:33 a.m. just spotted huge breach off Shilshole
, whales moving north. East of mid channel approaching Golden Gardens. -Sue Larkin
*

9:23 a.m. -
Seeing them now from my roof on the bluff above
Golden Gardens
park. Spread out group of at least 8. A spy hop and some tail slapping. Couple juveniles in the group...closer to the seattle side for sure. -Jennifer Greiner Clark
*

9:15 a.m. -
Kimberly Malzahn reported
12 +orcas
in a tight group northbound. She is viewing from
Rolling Bay, Bainbridge
. Line of sight had them just north of West Point lighthouse mid-channel or east side of channel. 3 large males in group, lots of surface activity. Potentially Residents. -Susan Marie Andersson
*

8:54 a.m. - off West Point/Discovery Park
... Mid channel, headed north. They're really strung out, feeding I think. -Sandra Prow
*

7:30 a.m. - At least 6 orcas went around Alki Point
. Heading north. At least one adult male sized dorsal and at least 5 small dorsals. Within 200 to 300 yards of shore. I live up the hill and spotted them south of 4000 Beach Drive and watched as they rounded Point towards Elliott Bay. -Linda J Rusch
*
Sighting of 8-11 orcas:

7:30 a.m. - At least 10 Orcas
, including several young and one with a huge dorsal fin seen at

7:30am-8am off Alki Beach
Seattle swimming towards Magnolia (Northbound). Feeding and traveling in a line. -Cynthia Faubion
*
Sighting of approximately
7 or 8 orca whales heading North just off Beach Drive in West Seattle at
7:00 am
Tuesday,
September 19th. They appeared to just be moving through the area. There was at least one male in the group. -Dawnie Moss
*

Entry 4:
Admiralty Inlet -
5:00 p.m. - The 5 or so probable Ts came south in mid-channel down Admiralty Inlet
accompanied by well-behaved whale watch boats to about even with Foulweather Bluff at the entrance to Hood Canal. At that point they turned about, making a wide U-turn and heading back north. They should be approaching Bush Pt. light about now. Meanwhile the
Ls and Js who had been milling and foraging for hours between Possession Point and Point No Point were still there at 5PM
. Could it be that the Ts came within acoustic range of the Rs and decided it would be prudent to turn around and avoid and encounter? They often turn around so there's no way to know, but it was an interesting U-turn when they reached about 7-8 miles from the Residents. Here's another 4 mile shot from the bluff. -Susan Berta and Howard Garrett, Orca Network
*

4:00 p.m - Southbound whales passed Bush Pt
. No clue who they are. -Rachel Haight
*

2:16 p.m. -
In Port Townsend and just wandered out to
Point Wilson Lighthouse
aimed my binos to the south when what a surprise at least 3 WW boats off the northend of Marrowstone Island caught my attention. I then could see blows. WW boats coming and going for the next 30 mintues. (Js & Ls are much further south in Admiralty so I know it's is not them). -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
Killer whales inbound through Admiralty Inlet ~
13:45.
2 WW boats with them and a 3rd enroute. Look to be mid channel. -Frances Robertson, SMRU Consulting and NE Pacific Minke Whale Project
*

Entry 5:
Ts in Admiralty on the 19th were T49A1, T49Bs, and T65Bs
. -Sara Hysong-Shimazu
*

Entry 6:
Juan de Fuca Strait with a few humpback whales
around. -Photo by Paul Pudwell,

