Orca Sightings for May 7, 2017
============================================================

Entry 1:
"Ken called
in the morning reporting that whales were heading east off Sooke
. After waiting for the whales to get a little closer, Giles and Dave headed down to Snug Harbor and left at 1145. We found
our first whales about a half mile east of Trial Island at 1225. This was J35 along with J47 and J45. J17, J44, and J53
were a little behind the others and quickly caught up and the whales all traveled east in a loose group before turning north once they past Seabird Point. There were
other whales well on their way across Haro Strait heading toward the west side of San Juan Island
so we moved ahead and briefly saw
J40 and J27 spread out heading northeast toward False Bay
. Since the leaders had already hit the west side, we decided to move up toward Bellevue Point and let the leaders come to us..." Full encounter summary & photos at
Center for Whale Research Encounter 33
*
J53 "Kiki" showing off some aerials in Boundary Pass!
One of those incredible nights. Flat calm, beautiful light and not another boat in sight. We shut down and you could hear a pin drop, it was so quiet. We could hear breaches but couldn't see some of the animals because of the huge spread and then J53 started doing this! We had a pretty epic time with
J47
too. -Gary Sutton,

Entry 2:
*
We saw members of all matrilines and almost every whale, though some were offshore and unidentifiable. We left them at

16:30 at Turn Point
undecided between Swanson and Boundary. Really spread out at the beginning but some closer more playful groups near the end. Really cool to see
L87, J38, J45, and J49
all hanging out together playing.
J19
was in the lead being very J2-like, for today anyway. All the youngster were very bouncy and looked healthy, to me anyway! -Monika Wieland Shields
*
Often
J27 Blackberry travels with his younger brother J39 Mako
, but on Sunday he was with his sister J31 Tsuchi as J-Pod passed Lime Kiln. Leaders way ahead of where I thought, approaching LB 1300. all north of LK at 1440. -Monika Wieland Shields
*

1:40 -
2:15 tuned into Lime Kiln to listen to J pod. S1, S3, S10 calls and echolocation
. Watched whales on webcam as well. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

12:37 p.m - Faint calls on lime kiln hydrophone.
-Chelsea Lope
*

8:30 a.m. - All of J pod inbound past Sooke
this morning...should be near Race Rocks now! What an amazing morning to be the first to welcome the entire J Pod clan of the Southern Resident Killer Whales back to the Salish sea... Glad to see some have started to return to our area! -Paul Pudwell
*
Good day, I live in Old Town Mukilteo. I have a view of Hat Island, and Possession Sound. On Sunday about

3:00 p.m.
I spotted (through binoculars)
2, possibly 3 whales,
"cruising," with/next to a south-bound sailboat
about a mile south of the eastern tip of Hat
. I also own a sailboat, and have had close encounters with Grays in Possession Sound and as such, that is what I was watching for, however the dorsal fins on these whales where, "unmistakably," Orcas... long, tall, "black," dorsals.... I am by no means an expert, but I'm pretty sure it was a pod of Orcas. I have no idea which one. It would be awesome if someone else also reported this sighting...-Patrick R Greer
*
Juan de Fuca - About

7:30 pm a lone humpback
headed west just offshore about a mile east of
iceberg point, Lopez Island
. -Tom Reeve, Lopez Island
*
Puget Sound -
7:43 p.m. - single humpback headed south into Budd Inlet
- and if it headed north, it did so late in the night. I saw it surface 3 times, heard it 4 times. This is just at the entrance to Budd Inlet and that is Cooper Point in front of it. Cascadia Research knows. -Kim Merriman
*
Surfaced just four times and lost it around
Browns Point, maybe 550ish

5:37 p.m. - just saw a [humpback] whale three times heading Southeast off point Ruston
. -Allison Stewart Bishins
*

5:40 p.m. -
I think we just saw the trail of
a [humpback] whale in front of the Point Defiance ferry
! He's in the middle of Commencement Bay. -Lori Patch
*

4:17 p.m. - Small humpback? South bound Colvos Passage
, breached! Pt.Richmond. -Phyllis Macy Putnam
*

6:03 p.m. - Whales again in Birch Bay
....watching two right now. One in close and another out further and off to the right. -Wendy Wampler
*
North Puget Sound -
7:50 p.m. - Whales right off of Langley
, slightly north of the inn trailing almost to Bells Beach. -Emily Wandres
*

7:49 p.m. -
Visiting a friend on the 5t floor at Providence rehab in Everett down by the bayside, watching
3 gray whales. From our viewpoint, 2 are on the east side of Hat Island, the third is over closer to Tulalip
. -Pam Ren
*
Also had a report from Dena Marie of
three Gray whales feeding and having a party at Mabana, Camano Island at
4:05 pm
, with lots of birds following them around.
*
12 noon - Langley friends... two whales blowing
in front of my shop right now. -Marie Lincoln (Chocolate Flower Farm - The Garden)
*

10:38 a.m. - Two grays in Everett Harbor
, Little Patch and another yet to be determined.
11:34 a.m. - Both Patch and Little Patch are here, east of Hat Island in Everett Harbor. -Steve Smith
*

8:11 a.m. - Two gray whales off the southern tip of Hat Island
. Blows visible from Clinton/Mukilteo ferry. -Margaret Marshall
*
Admiralty/Juan de Fuca - Traveling NNW passing Point Wilson. T86As plus T124Ds
. -Photo by Ariel Yseth,

Entry 3:
ID notes by Melisa Pinnow, CWR: " I see T124D the first and second photos"
)
*

9:34 a.m. -
Puget Sound Express just picked up
transient killer whales at Point Wilson headed west
. -Peter Hanke
*
North Puget Sound -
11:00 a.m. - 3-4 orcas in Admiralty Inlet, heading north between Bush Pt. and Lagoon Pt
. with purpose through the sailboats. - Claudia Mitchell
*

7:30 a.m. -
Maia of WA State Ferries relayed a report from the
Edmonds/Kingston ferry of about ten orcas heading north
.
*
Afternoon NB
groups south of Tacoma to Alki -
8:30 PM - as the crew passed Bainbridge
(beyond yellow channel marker) Large bull in the lead, really far west in the channel, in the waning light. What a nice way to end the day. -Photo by Kersti Muul,

Entry 4:
*
For the past half hour I have been watching the
Pod of Orca's that exited Colvos Passage, near the southend of Blake Island
, further east @ 500 yards ...they were hunting, look like 2 big boys as they kept turning directions, ... lots of activity , tail slapping, breaching, thrashing and splashing as they made a kill...I watch them hunt and then catch their prey.. saw lots of activity and Seabirds flying overhead. I watch them for an half hour milling in the same spot , most likely feeding and enjoying their dinner before they moved on traveling Northbound,
east side of Blake Island at @ 8pm
....-Kathe Bradly
*

8:12 pm - Passing by Blake Is
. quickly in West Side of Shipping Channel, heading NE fast approaching Bainbridge;

7:55 p.m. - Orcas just south of Southworth
near the blinking tower: The group went North 1/4 of the way past Blake Isl. then turned southbound. They may have killed something, they've been splashing and milling for 30 mins;

7:50 p.m. -
the group is now heading North,
almost to Blake Island
with Large Bull in the group. -Kersti Muul

7:45 p.m. -
Report from WA State Ferries: the Ferry Issaquah reports
8-10 orcas northbound on the N side of Blake Island
.
*

7:05 p.m. - They are headed toward Seattle
. About
.5 mile from Alki Beach
heading North. Must be 12 all together between multiple pods. -Jessi Bailey
*

6:59 p.m. - 2nd pod of 4-5 just next to it but closer to the ferry dock
northbound;

6:51 p.m. - almost to Southworth ferry
more on the Vashon side heading north. -Ryan Sheridan
*

6:45 p.m. -
Tim Ferris reports 10 orcas rushing fast heading north at the
north end of Colvos Passage
.
*

6:22 p.m. -
passing Frageria Rd (north of Al's) in
Olalla, two pods
met up and continued northbound at a steady pace (8-10 total). -Katie Schmelzer
*

6:05 p.m - large pod just passed Lisabeulah beach
, closer to the Southworth/Olalla side of Colvos headed northbound fast in travel mode. -Marla Smith
*
About

5:30 p.m. - Two large males, Four females (two smaller)Traveling North on the south end of Colvos Passage.
Appeared to be traveling and playing. -Becky Sproat
*
Moving fast
up Colvos passage
5:20 pm 2 groups. 12 -15 moving fast
. -Mark Baker
*

5:19 p.m. -
They are heading northbound. The second pod is joining them. Looks like they are both going to head through Colvos Passage. They just passed between
Point Defiance and Gig Harbor. I count 3 pods. Minimum of 3 per pod and one pod has 6.
- Josh Hollandsworth
*

5:18 p.m. - Heading north in Colvos toward Sunrise Beach and then Olalla. 3 pods.
Were moving fairly quick;

5:13 p.m. - 2 pods; 3-5 and 2-4 or more just north of Pt Defiance
. Northbound towards west side of Vashon;

4:59 - arrival off Pt Defiance W side
. Heading north. Viewing from Gig Harbor old ferry dock. -Danielle Clark
*

5:05 p.m. - Looks like they are headed to Colvos Passage now. ..The two pods came together just north of Pt. Defiance
today before heading north in Colvos. Two groups of Orcas, about 5 each, came together just north of Pt. Defiance after passing Salmon Beach. We were drifting with motor off when two bulls, massive, surfaced 25-ft from our 14ft skiff. Amazing! Here are a few zoom and crop photos from the skiff. -Zeno Martin
(
see photos below and more in Zeno's photo album. ID notes by Melisa Pinnow, CWR: from all photos: "It looks like at least the T101s, T68Bs, and T68B1s"
)
*
Around

5:00 p.m. this evening with Salmon Beach, Tacoma
in the background. -Photo by Cari Black,

Entry 5:
*

4:37 p.m. - Pod now north of Narrows bridge
and heading towards Point Defiance very quickly. Two males, 4-5 females. -Jennier McKee-Johnson
*
T102 and one of his brothers
...Watched these two pass by from the Tacoma Narrows viewpoint at
Point Defiance Park
. What a perfect way to end the day. -Photo by Jessica Pagan,

Entry 6:
*
Us south Sounders sure got a treat today. My wife and I were at the end of the beach bridge at
Chambers Bay
with binoculars when the orca appeared. We (well they through our excitement) drew quite a crowd. Then we drive up to Pt Defiance and stopped at one of the overlooks by the Narrows Bridge (which is where I figured they were going). Not only the group we saw at Chambers but a few more. Been doing random whale searches for years and this was our first orca success. Seen porpoises humpbacks and grays but our first for our favorites. Blessed. -Jamie Taylor
*
One of
2 orca pods that swam beneath the Narrows Bridge in Tacoma this afternoon
. (see photo below ) My daughter and I were lucky enough to see them swim beneath us. Also, my husband and I saw
what we believe to be a humpback swimming south of the Narrows Bridge
as we ran across it at
10am
this morning. We saw the back and large tail as it dove. It was an amazing day for whales! -Chris Coover
*

4:30 p.m. - several headed north under the Narrows bridge
now. I'm
guessing 8-10 individuals
, maybe. Hugging Gig harbor side.Will have better idea when I can look at my pictures.

4:20 p.m. - taken from Titlow
with Point Fosdick in the background. Hard day for photos with lots of heat/water distortion. -Jill Clogston
*

4:30 p.m. - Just saw
two pods of Orcas passing under the Narrows Bridge at
4:30
. Heading to Point Defiance to watch the two pods come together. -Krissie Carl
*

4:20 p.m. - Northbound 2 Orcas ! Rest of pod NB along West shore across from Titlow Beach
. -Photo by Karen Caldwell,

Entry 7:
*

4:15 pm - They are heading through the Narrows
, almost to the bridge on the west side. -Lori Patch
*

4:11 p.m. - Small pod between Fox island and Chambers bay
golf course. Heading north toward narrows bridge. Not sure which pod but a couple of big males. - Jamie Taylor
*

4:06 p.m. - Sunday - what appears to be 3 males in the Narrows headed nort
h, just south of the bridge, on the west shore, approaching the park. -Phil Caldwell
*

3:55 p.m. - traveling the east side of Fox Island
toward Narrows bridge. -Cari Black
*

3:41 p.m. -
as best I can tell, the first group is now
between McNeil and Fox Headed into Carr inlet
with lots of boats and the second group is nearing the tip of Fox and headed north towards the Narrows with no one noticing;

3:25 p.m. - New group is now between Chambers Creek
golf course and tip off McNeil island, seemingly northbound. Boats still with them, but they are moving a at a good pace. 2 big males, at least one little one. Did some beautiful surfacing as a group;

3:14 p.m. - new group 5-6 orcas came up around west side of Anderson island
. Between McNeil and Anderson now, closer to ferry dock on AI and headed north. Boats with them. There were 2 big males and one really tiny baby - still looked pink in the photos - and another young one as well. They went and had a party in the middle of Chambers Bay, which was too far for me to get good shots of, but it sure looked like a hopping shindig!-Belen Bilgic Schneider
*
A huge
super-pod of transient (Bigg's) orca left the deep Sound in 3 groups
. This was just part of the group of the last group to come out, passing to the west of Anderson Island and heading out into Chamber's Bay. -Photo by Belen Bilgic Schneider,

Entry 8:
*

4:12 p.m. - A second pod went through as well. 2 large males with them also
. Would have posted sooner but didn't want to miss anything;

3:43 p.m - They are headed north through the Narrows. About 6 of them
;

3:12 P.M. - South of the fisherman's dock on Fox Island
. Saw a few surface. Not sure how many. They were headed towards the Narrows close to the tacoma side. -Andrea Brereton
*

2:36 p.m. -
from my vantage, it looks like they are in the water halfway between
McNeil and Steilacoom
, headed toward the Narrows. I'm changing location;

2:29 p.m. - there was a big male in front, followed later by another group. Later group is still along Ketron shore northbound.
Nearing the tip;

2:17 p.m. - passing between Anderson Island and Ketron
, visible from from Riviera dock in the island;

2:09 p.m. -
from Anderson Island FB: "Just spotted
three or four orcas heading north from Lyles Point
!." (SE Anderson Island) - I'm watching from the next viewpoint north on Anderson Island, waiting to spot. -Belen Bilgic Schneider
*
Case Inlet - We left the
Case Inlet pod at
3:20
. They were still
in Taylor Bay
and looked like they may have had a kill, as there was lots of activity and no real direction of travel;

2:43 p.m. - Orcas are milling in Taylor Bay
. Hard to tell how many from where we're watching. It was hard to tell, but we thought 5 or 6 with 1 big male. -Jessica Pagan
*

2:18 p.m. - Anderson Island side
. Def didn't continue down Nisqually reach though, think they turned north;

2:03 p.m. - Saw pod of six heading towards South Point of Long Branch
about 5 minutes ago, then disappeared (Nisqually Reach);

1:43 p.m. - 3 southbound towards Puget Marina (Olympia, Nisqually Reach)
. -Aletha McGee
*

1:12 p.m. - they passed Joemma Beach state park!
(southbound) My first time ever seeing these creatures in the wild! Beautiful tall dorsal fins! Couple blows! Life is good! Thanks orca network! -Ian Aranha
*

1:05 p.m. - Southbound possibly in direction of Dana Passage at Wilson Point
(Hartstine);

12:57 p.m. - Some heading towards Jemma
;

12:55 p.m. - Southbound south of Fudge Point
;

12:47 p.m. - Approximately 6 spread between Fudge Point
and Mcmicken SB;

12:43 p.m. - 6 southbound Case Inlet at Mcmicken Island
. -Doug Olson
*

12:10 p.m. - Same pod (only seeing 2-3 Orcas)
seem to be heading south along the main land shore toward
Herron Island
, or may be along Herron already. -Miche Ennis
*

11:22 a.m. -
They seemed to be after a pod of porpoises, hence the shifting directions. -Mia Bosetti
*

11:15 a.m. -
Correction.. they just turned around;

11:12 a.m. - They are heading south toward Harstine Bridge
now from Harstene /Chesapeake beach. Beautiful!;

11:04 a.m. - Seeing the same pod (~ 6 orcas) now at
11:04, from North point of Harestine island
. The are playing or feeding just south of Stretch Island (east end). -Miche Ennis
*

10:53 a.m. - Harstine Island pod northbound near Grapeview
. Feeding activity.

10:30 a.m. - Pod with multiple tiny babies off of Harstine Island Pointe
. Separate pod from Budd Inlet. Southbound. -Mia Bosetti
*

8:20 am - Orca sighting. 3-6 orcas seen at quite a distance, NE of McMicken Island
going north in Case Inlet. Feeding. -David Miller
*
Budd Inlet group -
11:45 a.m. - 5+orcas Johnson Point headed South
. -Kelly Ockerman
*

11:40 a.m. - Group of about 4 headed south. Just passing Johnson Pt
. and milling around between Zittle's and Anderson Island. One boat persuing them but I can't get an id. -Joan Ahre
*

11:00 a.m. -
still trending north. Slowly. Cannot tell which direction they will go (toward Hunter Point/Steamboat Island or up Dana Passage) other than that.

10:10 a.m. - Budd Inlet orcas (maybe 2 bulls)
are somewhat stalled. Staying in same vicinity. Moving very slowly trending north with outgoing tide but lots of splashing and aerial moves. Gulls overhead;

9:40 a.m. - At least 4 (with large bull) heading north out of Budd Inlet
just passing Boston Harbor. Can hear them surface clear across the bay(s) and see their blows lighting the sky like crystalline fireworks. Too far away for decent photos. -Kim Merriman
*

8:00 am sighting: Pod of 6 or so Orcas traveled south through Pickering Passage
at Jarrells Cove at close to 8am. -Teresa Saunders Westcoat

