Orca Sightings for September 4, 2009
============================================================

Entry 1:
About a dozen or more
L-Pod
whales (L-5, L-73, L- 74, L-84, L-25, L-12, L-41, L-77, L-94), came through
Cattle Pass
into San Juan Channel, where we watched them off of Griffin Bay, at about

1:25pm
, as they hugged Lopez Island, slowly heading north with a strong flood tide. They stayed together, pausing many times, as if deciding where to go next! We wondered if they would go into Upright Channel, but no- as a group they instantly, fluidly turned and swam along Shaw Island until Parks Bay, where they turned west, north, then back south retracing their route. Now it is about

3:40pm
and we are right outside of
Friday Harbor
. We heard reports and could see another group of whales- K's? further south in the channel, who had made it to Reid Rock by this time. They lingered and seemed to be foraging in the tide rips there. Reports were that J's were with them earlier, but did not go through Cattle Pass. (Despite my mixing up L-73 Flash with J-1 Ruffles- L- 73 sure has the same wavy dorsal fin!!) Such a rare occurrence, and a treat, to see these whales in this channel, especially L's & K's without the J's- who spend the most time in these waters. We only saw one spy hop, and a few of the youngsters roll and show their pectoral fins, no other surface behaviors other than traveling and a little foraging. The way they swam so slowly and stopped frequently appeared as if they were hesitant and unfamiliar with this channel. I went to the Cattle Point Lighthouse at

6:10pm
, to see the whales, now in 2 groups and the tide is starting to ebb, go south along Goose Island through the pass toward the southwest. There were 2 Bald Eagles on Goose Island and 2 Steller Sea Loins in the water watching with me! The orcas picked up speed as they rounded Cattle Point, so I went up the road to the South Beach overlook, where they spread out halfway between shore and Hein Bank, heading west at

7:06pm
.
Caroline Armon
*
Amy Traxler of the Whale Museum called to share two reports from their hotline of the
Transient orcas
in south Puget Sound between
Hammersley Inlet and Oakland Bay
.
*
We were out on the Western Explorer at about
noon
when two big groups of
K and L Pod
whales had a greeting ceremony off the
South Beach
area. They had only been apart for about a day, but that didn't seem to matter to them! One group had come up from Iceberg Point and the other had come in from Hein Bank. The whales lined up in two large groups facing each other a few hundred yards apart - about 20 to 30 animals on each side. They dove for about a minute or two, and when they came back to the surface they were all facing the same direction, but there were LOTS of tail slaps, plus some spyhops, breaches, and pec slaps. They all started heading back towards Cattle Pass, but instead of heading east or south like they normally do, they took a sharp left and started heading UP
San Juan Channel
in two large groups about a mile or so apart. The leading group was made up of mostly L-Pod whales, including the L12s and the L5s. The trailing group was made up of most of
K-Pod
(minus the K11s) and the L2 family group. I saw them still heading north from Friday Harbor at about
3 PM
, but I heard they turned at some point and went back south and out of Cattle Pass later in the day.
Monika Wieland, Naturalist aboard the Western Explorer
*
"Wow what a day on the water - count the whales in this photo! We found
J pod
with some
L's
mixed in around

11:45 am
this morning, west of
Smith Island
and traveling slowly west, often in tight groups. I was able to ID J1, J2, J8, J14, J17, J22, J27, J28, J30 and J31. Also L72 with her very distinctive saddle patch. We stayed with them for an hour or so, then headed towards
San Juan Channel
and found roughly a dozen Steller Sea Lions cavorting in the bull kelp. Then in San Juan channel there were more orca.
Jill Hein, on board Mystic Sea
*
As they came up
SJC
- I saw all of
K Pod
(EXCEPT the K-11s and Onyx L-87) and with them were the L-2s -Grace, Gaia and Wave Walker. The 'first group' as they came up SJC - the only L Pod whales I DID NOT see were: L-7 and L-53 - Canuck and Lulu but they travel with J Pod right now. L-72 and L-105 Racer and Fluke (I got pics of L-95 Nigel so that was strange), L-47, L-83, L-91 and L-110 Marina, Moonlight, Muncher, and Midnight, L-26, L-90 and L-92 Baba, Ballena and Crewser. AND I DID NOT SEE Spirit L-22 - but I saw her two boys - L-79 Skana and L-89 Solstice. the other day she was with Blackberry and Mako - hum - I wonder if she was with J pod today. I got pics of everyone else in L Pod.
Jeanne Hyde, San Juan Island
*
We left Friday Harbor, and within about 15 minutes we met up with a northbound group of
L's
in
San Juan Channel
. There were around 25 in this group I'd say, fairly grouped and synchronized, moving oh so slowly north while hugging the Lopez shoreline. They didn't appear to be resting, and while there were the few occasional lunges and surface direction changes, they didn't really appear to be feeding for the most part either. As they began to pass Turn Island, they all instantly made a 90 degree turn to their left, to continue along San Juan Channel. There was a single spyhop, perhaps wondering where they heck they were! They continued north, and eventually made their way right off Friday Harbor. Following behind was another group of
K's and L's
. The first group made a 180, as did the group behind, and they slowly headed south. We putted into the Harbor (still watching the whales) at around 4, and on the 5 o'clock ferry back to Anacortes I was able to still spot 5 fins south of Turn Island. Present were L5, 25, 12, 84, 79, 55, 77, 25, 95, 74, 54, 73, 41, 22, along with K40 and 21, and many more.
Heather Harris, Bellingham
*
This is a report of a pod of
orcas
that arrived in
Hammersley Inlet
by Shelton, WA on
September 2 and they are still here at
dusk
.
Beth Reid, Shelton, WA
*
We have had 4, or possibly 5, Orcas in Hammersley Inlet in the Shelton area.
Lee Zuke, Shelton, WA I received a report this morning from Jason Ragan, who said the
transients
had moved into
Oakland Bay
near Shelton.
Christopher Dunagan, Environmental Reporter, Kitsap Sun
*
Victor Andrucson called Orca Network to report
5-6 orcas
500 - 1000' off the South end, east side of
Texada Island BC
, near Dicks Island (north of Vancouver) at
1700
hours. There were 2 very young ones, 2 medium sized whales and at least one very large one. They were first seen heading south, then milling and feeding - appeared to be feeding on salmon.
*
We got to view the [
orcas
] twice from the Whale Museum (in
Friday Harbor
)! This is rare, as they don't often travel in
San Juan Channel
. The whales were in San Juan Channel, pretty close to the shore of Shaw Island on the first pass by at about

3:10 p.m
. We counted between 8-10 whales and they were too far away to id. As soon as we had put away our binoculars and gotten back to work, we got word they had turned around and were coming back! This time they were closer, though still too far for any positive id's. On the 2nd pass by, they were traveling south and were soon out of sight behind Brown Island.
Connie Domenech, The Whale Museum
*
It was reported to us as a superpod before they got here but we didn't see enough whales to look like a superpod and we were too far away to identify anyone. But it was definitely exciting seeing whales from the
museum
- twice since they turned around and headed back south again!
Cindy Hansen, The Whale Museum, Friday Harbor
*
It was an amazing sight to see
J Pod
and a few members of L pod traveling swiftly off shore of
San Juan Island
between
1.30pm and 2pm
. They were all bunched up together coming up from the south and heading north. L 7 and L 72 were clearly seen. They seem to be all on a mission.
Marie O'Shaughnessy. Orca-Magic. Prince Of Whales, Victoria, B.C.
*
Pod went past the south end of
Lopez
11:15
am. About 12
orcas
, traveling east to west, very relaxed and easy pace. No boats around just the orcas.
Sally Reeve, Lopez Island
*
K and L pods
moving up
San Juan Channel
from the south at

1:00 P.M
. Encountered them north of Shark Reef and traveled with them north up the channel until they turned west along Shaw Island. Today they were in two tight groups with one moving more quickly than the other. K40 "Raggedy", K21 "Cappuccino", L74 "Saanich", L84 "Nyssa", L54 "Ino" were there along with many others.
Tristen Joy, Naturalist, Crew At San Juan Safaris Whale Watch Wildlife Tours
*
In
Hamersley Inlet
, in Shelton, the
Transient
orcas are currently (

1:05 pm
)at
Oakland Bay & Hammersely inlet
.
Deborah Goelzer
*
Apparently these two
Transient Orca
seen by the
3.30pm
Ocean Magic trip out of Victoria were labelled as 'unknown' until at a later time last evening, when Mark Mallard from POW was able to identify them, as
U 38 and U 39
. They were seen 2 miles south of
Constance Bank
, Strait of Juan de Fuca and heading even further south when we left them at
5pm
. We had spent time with a
Humpback Whale
south of Constance Bank that was foraging before we got word that the Transients were out there too.
Marie O'Shaughnessy, Orca-Magic. Prince Of Whales, Victoria B.C.
Since I'd never run across any "U" Transients before, I asked for clarification from the Center for Whale Research as to what a "U" (rather than a "T") Transient means - here's Dave's answer - sb: It means Graeme (Ellis, of Canada's DFO Pacific Biological Field Station) is not willing to call them transients yet since (probably) no one has biopsied these two, there are no recordings of them, and/or they have never been sufficiently associated with known west coast transients. They do look like they came out of a slightly different mold and may have moved into these waters from somewhere to the south of here or from offshore.
Dave Ellifrit, Center for Whale Research
*
Orca Network received a call from Dan Shenk, reporting 1 male
orca
with a dorsal fin bent to the left at the tip (T40?), at
Seaview
, near Ilwaco, WA, heading south at
7 pm
in 90' of water.

