Orca Sightings for March 7, 2018
============================================================

Entry 1:
Southern Residents - One or more orca pods came at 3 different times today in the Strait of Georgia, off Edith Point on Mayne island
.
Encounter 3: This is the third sighting
between 519pm and 525pm
tonight. There must be
at least 4 Orcas
, but possibly more. They are going South toward Satura, maybe 1 km from shore or more.
Encounter 2:
Orcas seen further inside Georgia Strait, several miles out of Mayne island
with Point Roberts in the back
between 411pm and 416pm
today. They were mostly going South but some photos show them going North. So maybe they went back and forth? Are they the same as those I took at 520pm an hour later? (closer to shore by then) One middle photo shows 5 orcas on the same photo. So there are at least 5 of them! I am curious to hear more about who they are!
Encounter 1: ...first morning sighting. Maybe it is a different pod from the ones in the afternoon. They seemed to pop up over a wide area, ie
at least 4-5 individuals
. Heading south as well. No boats around, as for all subsequent visits later today. -Yves Tiberghien (Mayne island, BC)
"
L87, J17, and J53
are the only ones I can say are there with any certainty. There is a whale in the pics who is probably
J38
. I also see a couple other males that
might be J27 and K26
. There is also another sprouter that could be somebody like
K37 or J39
. That's the best I can do! Thanks for sending the pics. Cheers, Dave" - Dave Ellifrit, CWR
*

Entry 2:
San Juan Channel - T2Cs - We got a visit from the T2Cs
this afternoon! They're such an amazing family group, with 16 year-old male
T2C2 having scoliosis
but likely surviving thanks to his supportive family. Here he is surfacing on the left with his youngest sibling
T2C4
first seen in early 2017. The family of 5 were heading slowly south off Reuben Tarte County Park late this afternoon. Here's another photo that shows the deformed spine and twisted dorsal fin a bit more. It can be hard to capture in a photo but is very visible when you see him surface. T2C2 swims very slowly and his family seems to slow down to accommodate him. Because of his physical deformity he's unlikely to be an efficient hunter; killer whales are known to prey share, especially with family, so the fact that he's lived this long likely means his family members are hunting and sharing food with him. On several occasions I've witnessed him hanging back while his family hunts, then he moves in when they've made the kill. -Photo by Monika Wieland Shields,

Entry 3:
T77A, T87, T101s, T124As, T124Ds) -
10:05 p.m. -
Just saw at least 5 Orcas headed north
towards The Narrows between Steilacoom and McNeil
. There was a large male in the group. Couldn't get a picture it was so dark. Heard them before i saw them. -Brandon Simek
*
Approx

6:45 p.m. -
It looked to me like they were mid channel headed south on the
east side of Anderson
last I saw. At least the front group. 3 were way ahead of the main group. -Paul Allen
*

6:27 p.m. - Heading south north end of McNeil Island
. -Lisa Wiksten
*

6:02 p.m. - Looks like 4-5 headed past Chambers Bay
. -Anita French
*

5:59 p.m. - 2 passing the Fox Island Pier
, headed south. -Sarah Cardinal
*

6:05 p.m. - at least 6 in trail on Fox Islan
d side still heading south quickly.

5:54 p.m. - at least 3 just passed Titlow
on the Fox island side headed south toward Chambers. -Ashley Whitman
*
Saw
3 separate groups pass by The Narrows
headed south plus one male bull (
T101A
pictured) following far behind, who just passed by

5:55pm
. -Photo by Gaby Kinner,

Entry 4:
(
ID by Alisa LB
)
*

5:40 p.m. -
Donna Seiber called in a report of
at least 7 orcas southbound going under Tacoma Narrows Bridge
.
*

5:42 p.m. - 2 more groups
came through, about
another 10-12 total, all southbound to Narrows Bridge
.

5:23 p.m. - Females approaching the bend in the Narrows right before Bridge
, Males should be at Narrows Bridge or just past.. southbound steadily. Sounds like there's a Group in the Narrows close to Bridge, & a second group back in Dalco still?

5:12 p.m. - All entering Narrows
, Males ahead still...females trailing.

4:57 p.m. -
hunting behavior from females, boys wandering towards The Narrows. Still
off Pt.Defiance at Gig Harbor
Viewpoint.

4:53 p.m. - still milling off Gig Harbor Viewpoint in Pt. Defiance
, 2 males, few females.-Melissa Burke ("
This could be T124A3 but I am not quite sure" - Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*

5:23 -
New group in between
south of end of Vashon and Gig Harbor
. Looks like 3 males (one huge one) and two females.
based on my sightings and location presuming these to be
T101s plus
.

4:55 p.m. - two males next to Pt Defiance cliffs
heading in direction of Narrows Bridge. (based on reports and photos presumably these males are
T87 and T77A
- alb) Females and young milling in front of Owens Beach about half way out toward Vashon.

4:50 p.m. - Can see at least six from the Gig Harbor Landing
. Two males together, two groups of females and maybe calves. -Amy Bliss-Miller
*

5:15 p.m. - Orcas in front of Salmon Beach
heading south now. -Pam Baker
*

4:56 p.m. - Mid channel between Point Defiance and Vashon
, hunting. Lots of tail slaps.

4:35 p.m. - Heading north towards Colvos passage
. -Gaby Kinner
*

4:38 p.m. -
had about four close to
Dalco Passage viewpoint (at Pt Defiance Park)
moving west. -Jill Clogston
*

4:27 p.m. - Visible from Owen Beach
near the ferry terminal Vashon side headed south. Two males, one female? Steady traveling. -Vanessa Atkins
*

4:38 p.m. - Males have dissapeared around the bend towards Colvos
, other group continued directionally NW all disappeared from my sight very close to Vashon, looked to be choosing Colvos.

4:30 p.m. - Two leading males keeping to Vashon side
, mid channel group (male and few females and calf at least) all look to be aiming towards Vashon directionally towards Colvos at the moment. But some directional changes just now. Circling, whales gong slowly in different directions but still moving towards Vashon.

4:15 p.m. - Westbound whales Dalco Pass:
large group including at least on bull, females, and young mid channel between southend Vashon and Point Defiance just east of the Vashon/Talequah ferry lanes.
Two of the T100 bulls in lead close to Vashon side
. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

4:30 p.m. - 3-4 turned nort
h past south end Vashon and
now in Colvos passage
heading north. Viewed from Owen Beach, Point Defiance.

4:00 p.m. -
Mom spotted the
orcas straight out north of Les Davies Dive Park, Ruston Way
...and I confirmed. They are moving west fast. -Marilyn Armbruster
*
Today, at
approx 4pm, a pod, small, of orcas
. I watched them from
Owen's Beach in Pt Defiance Park
, to the Tacoma Narrows Bridge, then it got dark. I had gone to walk my dog, and really got a treat!!! Someone taking pictures said 1 or maybe 2 babies, a few females, and the boys cruised about 1/4 mile away closer to the Gig Harbor side. Doesn't get much better that that! BABY ORCA. -Patti McAndrews
*
Feel like it's been a long time since I've sent you Orca photos. We saw
a big pod from Point Ruston starting from Point Robinson
, Saltwater, Browns Point into Commencement Bay

3:35
...on to
Quartermaster Harbor then Colvos where they swam out of view
. Moving at a good speed, swimming together at times then a few go this way and that way, them meeting back up to keep moving. Likely T124A members but hard to tell who. T124D and that tiny fin could be T124D2.
T102 (born 1984) - Westbound Dalco Passage off Tacoma waterfront. Lone male T87 (born est 1962) - Tacoma waterfront.
Thanks for the updates and hard work! Have a good day!!! -Desiree Sauve
(
ID notes by Melisa Pinnow, Center for Whale Research
)
*

4:10 p.m. -
Okay, apparently this is a bigger group than I realized, there are a few
off Browns Point
and a few (inc. 2 males)in mid channel headed toward Vashon as of
16:10.

4:06 p.m. -
Belay my last, they have
now turned and are headed toward Vashon
.

4:00 p.m. - Entering Commencement Bay
at
16:00 heading SE

3:28 p.m. - They are South of Saltwater State Park
(Des Moines), we are watching from Point Ruston in Tacoma, can't determine much about activity yet. -Tony Collins
*

3:40 p.m. - Orca whales
. Saw
a pod of orcas today at Dash Point
going south. -Lucian Johnson
*
Approx
2:40 p.m. -
Arrived at Point Robinson and was walking to the point when I started seeing
fins
directly out from south side of the point...spread out. A family of
at least 3
, including young calf, few others futher towards mid channel. Few minutes later notice two of the big boys already past us on the south side of the park close to shore, one
looked to be T102
. Those two continued hugging shore southbound went on a dive then surfaced further offshore and east. After some directional changes, circling, a breach and a couple of spy hops by these two they continued moving offshore directionally towards mainland side. All the while fins of several
others in groups of 1- 5
were streaming spread out further out to mid channel, some heading SW, others SE directionally
towards Browns Point, Tacoma
. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
Point Robinson
pass by this
afternoon
. Most of the group was spread out across the channel, saw one sweet baby out in the distance. The only ones that came a bit close to shore for a brief breath was
T101A and T101B ( I think!!)
here in these pictures. They are such studly dudes!!
T102
(not certain, but his dorsal has that distinct curve that I think was his) was ahead of them, but not too close to shore and went for a deep dive when he passed the point. Mom (I presume it was her) was there as well, but didn't get any pics of her. They took long dives and were traveling very quickly. Saw one breach, mid channel. Always a blessing to see them in the wild! -Marla Smith
*

2:13 p.m. -
Mid channel off
KVI beach
Long down times. (KVI is
between Dilworth and Point Robinson
- alb). -Shannon Kachel
*
What an exciting day spending the afternoon on the beach with the
T101's!
I was lucky enough to have two very close passes with these big guys at
Dilworth Beach and Point Robinson Beach. T124A and her calf T124A6 offshore Point Robinson. T124A with her calf T124A6. T101 in front. Looks like T124A4 behind. Adult brothers T101B and T101A pass close to shore off Dilworth
, Vashon. My adrenaline got going today as they surfaced out of no where 10 yards out from the beach where I was standing. They were so close, I did not get a focus on my camera. Rejuvenating. -Kelly Keenan (
ID by Sara Hysong-Shimazu w/T124A4 confirmed by Melisa Pinnow, CWR
)
*

1:55 p.m. -
From Ferry I can see one group with 2 bulls VERY
close to Vashon side at Dilworth point
!

1:10 p.m. -
One group including two bulls are mid channel
south of Blake
heading southbound towards Vashon/Southworth Ferry lanes, though east channel (not Colvos) -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

1:38 p.m. -
all three groups continued southbound, have passed
Brace Point
, moved closer to west side of channel.

1:18 p.m. - three more females/juveniles in the same spot as
1:10 update
....Several more spread out closer to Vashon ferry lanes and dock. -Oia VanHanen
*

1:08 p.m. - Some south end Blake Island heading south
. -Buzz Shaw
*

12:45 p.m. -
Spotted one moving south at steady pace, mid channel, off
Constellation Park
. -Photo by Lorna Stitt,

Entry 5:
*

12:45 p.m. -
Mike from WSF called to say they had
10-15 orcas spread across from Alki to Restoration Point
heading southbound.
*

12:43 p.m. -
Found 'em!
Between Alki and Restoration Points
, ferry Rich Passage is following one group at a respectful distance. -Stephanie Raymond
*

11:04 a.m. -
We have spread or whales! I've seen
at least 9 including 4 bulls
. The first group has 2 males, one more adult male southwest of that group with a 4th to the west of larger group. All steady southbound.

10:55 a.m. -
Pod of
at least 5
including one bull is east of mid channel
off Richmond Beach Saltwater Park
to the east and Jefferson Head, Kitsap to the west. Steady southbound in mildly rough seas. Cold out here! -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

10:37 a.m -
Appears to be
several orcas with one large male middle of sound between Point Wells and Kingston
heading south. -Darlene Moneypenny
*

10:26 a.m. - Orcas heading south halfway between Edmonds and Apple Cove Point.
One male and a couple of others. -Sherman Page
*
Coastal killer whales -

Entry 6:
orcas seen off Washington coast out from Ocean Shores. Approx.
11:00 a.m
. - We were crabbing about
1 mile north of Westport, WA
and about 4-5 miles offshore when we saw 5-6 orcas for sure, possibly more. No adult males observed. No obvious direction, just going in different directions.
*

Entry 7:
8:00 a.m. - One gray spouting/feeding off of Jetty Island
, Everett. -Lori Christopher
*
Photos of the
gray whale that was feeding at Polnell Point
. Just the one. We first noticed it around 8am. Walked down to the beach and watched it for about an hour or more. He/she was still feeding when we walked home. -Photo by Terra Parham,

Entry 8:
*

7:20 a.m. - Grey Whale feeding at east side of Polnell Point
. Very close to shore. -Video by Jeff Humphrey,

Entry 9:
(
This is gray 723 - Alisa LB
)
(
ID by Alisa LB
)

