Orca Sightings for July 27, 2009
============================================================

Entry 1:
Nice to see
J-Pod
with J-2 Granny and J-1 Ruffles leading 3 groups of J-Pod across
Boundary Pass
, from Turn Point, Stuart Island, where they breached numerous times! Slack ebb tide made for calm waters. At

3:15pm
they headed toward the Pender Islands.
Caroline Armon, San Juan Island
*
We were headed for
Roche Harbor
and found ourselves in the center of a pod of
Orcas
. It felt like some of them were getting too close so we shut down and sat there. They were all around us, mostly at a safe distance but then four males headed away from us, seemed to stop and gather a plan, then headed straight for us and went under and behind the boat!
Donna DeCew
*
Dave Ellifrit, Erin Heydenreich, Emma Foster of the Center for Whale Research encountered the
L12's
off Kellett Bluff (48° 34.94 N: 123° 11.77 W) at

11:23 a.m.
They were moving slowly north, close in shore. At about noon they turned back south. Shortly after, we encountered all of
J pod
traveling in a tight group a few miles west of Spieden Island. We left the J's at

1:24 p.m.
, still moving slowly north in Haro Strait (48° 39.08 N: 123° 14.71W).
Center for Whale Research
*
Ditto reports of great
orcas
encounter with orcas coming around the south end of
Lopez
- pod was very active with spy hops, tail slaps, rolls and many breaches. Then large number of orcas in close formation traveling about ½ mile behind the others.
Sally Reeves, Lopez Island
*
This evening from
7-8 PM
on the Western Prince we watched
K-Pod
and at least part of
L- Pod
travel from
Iceberg Point to Cattle Point
. There were several small active groups of whales spread out and it was hard to get IDs at first, but L79 and L72 were both there. There was a lot of breaching and tail slapping going on, and one young whale breached so high its whole body must have been 10 feet above the surface. Pretty impressive! We then had a truly fantastic encounter with all of K-Pod in one tight group, and from my photos I was able to confirm that every single member of K-Pod was traveling together, in addition to honorary K-Pod member L87. You can see some highlights on my blog.
Monika Wieland, Naturalist aboard the Western Prince, San Juan Island
*
The
3.30pm
Ocean Magic had a wonderful encounter with some of
K pod
later in the afternoon at
Iceberg
, off Lopez Island. There were multiple breaches, spyhops, tail lobs and backward rolls. K 21, Cappuccino and, K 40 were really playful together. They kept us entertained for some time, while other Orca in the distance were breaching along the shoreline. Some were off shore and other close to shore, and all moving slowly south.
Marie O'Shaughnessy, Orca-Magic POW
*
On route back to Victoria, we found
Lpod
who had been making their way in from the west and were about 1 mile south of
Discovery
spread apart heading east to San Juan Island. When we found them they were in groups which sometimes moved closer together and wider apart. Breaching, spyhops, pec slapping were among some of the behaviors. They swam closely along side of a large freighter at times broadcasting behaviors such as breaching, pec slapping, tail slapping very close to the ship. On the afternoon
2 pm
5 Star trip, we traveled to Hein Bank (see Minke report below) then headed to
Salmon Bank
where we found some of
Kpod
displaying some very active behavior. Much breaching was sighted in many locations. We had a splendid view of K21 and K40 (brother and sister) in playful acts, rolling around, and someone (not sure who) was sticking their tail high out of the water as almost waving at us. A young calf (un identified) was seen playing around in the kelp and upon closer look at my photos - the baby had eelgrass hanging out of his or her mouth! A grand finale; 3 orcas departing the area with one breaching on the way about 6 times.
Chantelle Tucker / orcagirl.com / Prince of Whales, Victoria B.C.
*
We had reports early this morning of J's & L's on the west side, and more whales inbound from Race Rocks. So we meandered up to
Kellett Bluff
(
1115
), where we were treated to J Pod ever so slowly making their way northward. They seemed to spend a lot of time at the surface just "hanging out". We watched as J1 Ruffles stuck right next to mom J2 Granny. Then came J14 and her family group, J30 Riptide (the big boy of his family), J37 Hy'sqa, J40 Suttles, and the new calf. Soon we saw J8 Speiden, and our passengers were able to clearly hear her distinctive blows. We then moved more Northerly, and all the members of J-Pod began to gather in a long line, and entered a resting pattern. The 4-5 boats on scene were all positioned over 200 yards from the line, shut down and just watching in rapt awe at seeing these amazing animals. We left the whales (
1215
) just passing
Battleship Island
. For our
afternoon
trip, we decided to head north to rejoin J Pod, and heard reports that
K's and more L's
had come in and the whales were down around
Eagle Cove
. We rejoined J Pod at Turn Point (1320), and the whales had by this time spread out a bit more as they tend to do in this area. Lots of surface percussives including breaches, lots of tail lobs, pectoral slaps. But the highlight for me and our passengers was viewing J2 Granny do an incredible spyhop about 130 yards from our boat. She came out over half her body length, held the position for 2-3 seconds and then slid back in the water. The whales began grouping back up as they passed Pender Bluffs, and we left the scene at
1400
to head back down to port and look at harbor seals, and a Bald Eagle.
John Boyd (JB), SSAMN Marine Naturalist, Western Prince, Friday Harbor
*
We had an great encounter with some
transients
in the
Strait of Georgia
this
afternoon
. When we first arrived on scene they were mostly just travelling, but it wasn't long before they had us well entertained! The first kill we saw was of a harbour seal, which luckily for the seal, didn't take very long. After that, the transients picked up speed and headed towards a group of
harbour porpoises
. They managed to catch one and they tormented the poor thing for at least 5 minutes before they killed it. We kept thinking that was the last we would see of the porpoise and then seconds later it would surface again trying to get away. It was amazing to watch, but you can't help but feel a little bit sorry for the porpoise. After the porpoise kill, there was quite a bit of activity. We saw a couple of spyhops, one breach, and some cartwheeling. There was also quite a lot of lobtailing. I think we had between 5-7 whales present.
Jill Persick, Steveston Seabreeze Adventures
We forwarded Jill's photos to the Center for Whale Research, and Dave Ellifrit replied: The bull is T102, the sprouter (young bull, whose fin is just beginning to "sprout" or grow tall) in the second picture is T101A, and I'm pretty sure the female in the third pic is T46C with her juve. So it was the T101's and I'm guessing the T46C's which would be right for about six animals total.
Dave Ellifrit, Center for Whale Research
*
On route from the Prince of Whales Vancouver Adventure crossing on the Ocean Magic, we found a group of about 6 or 7
transients
(at about

11:15 am
), some of those animals are identified as T102 and T101A, and were on the northwest side of
Galiano Island
. When we arrived they had recently made 2 kills and were now in typical traveling behavior.
Chantelle Tucker, Prince of Whales, Victoria B.C.
*
4
Orcas
swimming north from 48 53.229N 128 18.323W,

6:20 P:M
. 1 Male, 3 females at a distance east of Gossip Island (
Galiano Island
).
Keith and Andrea Ingstrup
*
About
8pm
from the bluff at
Ebey's landing
(central/west Whidbey Island), we saw two adult
Grey Whales
cruise by right offshore. They were heading north and were in a hurry.
Dave Parent, Freeland
*
On the afternoon
2 pm
5 Star trip, we traveled to
Hein Bank
where we saw 3
Minke
whales in pursuit of fish. There were several fishballs with many seabirds pinpointing the target areas.
Chantelle Tucker, 5 Star, Victoria B.C.
*
Orca Network received a call from Arlene Solomon of Mayne Island, BC, reporting a pod of
~5 orcas
, including 2 adult males, heading north into
Active Pass
at

10:53 am
.
*
After hearing the
orcas
on the hydrophones we headed out to the west side (San Juan Island) and saw them from the
Land Bank
about

9:00 a.m
. They were traveling northbound. Though they were not close to shore, it was so quiet and still, their blows were very loud!
Connie and Jaclyn Domenech
*

8:53am
- Super Loud [
orca
] vocals right now on
Lime Kiln hydrophone
!
Christine Swedell
*
This morning at

8:15 AM
I was on my way home and saw the same
two gray whales
that I've observed before feeding
NW of Everett
. It was a beautiful morning very calm and no boat traffic. The gray whales were about 1000 feet apart rolling on their sides and feeding on the sand bars.
Veronica von Allwörden, Langley, Whidbey Island

