Orca Sightings for April 3, 2017
============================================================

Entry 1:
*
...We spotted harbor porpoise to the north and acting on Captain Eric's hunch, headed that way and found a
HUMPBACK whale
. -Jill Hein, volunteer naturalist.
*
Haro Strait - On the way to find the J16s I resighted
a humpback
who had been seen a short time earlier. I saw her a few miles off shore,
due west Lime Kiln State Park around
1:15 p.m
. This humpback was relocated by Mark Malleson and identified as
BCY0324 Big Mama
. Sometime in the next hour while in between viewing the Dall's porpoise and going to find J16s again another humpback surfaced well inshore of us off the
False Bay area
. We stopped, but this whale dissappeared! S/he never surfaced in sight again. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network

Entry 2:
Haro Strait J16s - J26 headed for Mount Rainier in this evening
. J16's looked like they were headed for Admiralty although left J26 pointed west, north west of Hein Bank. -Mark Malleson,

Entry 3:
*
We're never really off the clock and that was the case this morning when Captain Spencer and Rachel were
on their way to Sidney
on the ferry.
J42 off the west side of San Juan Island today
, hunting salmon with her family in the sunshine. As they cruised across Haro Strait their sharp eyes spotted familiar black dorsal fins...they had orcas! With this relayed to the rest of the team we geared up for our mid-day trips and when we finally got out there we found members of
J-pod--the J16s
! J26 foraging by himself further offshore. Little J50 surfacing. It's always nice to see some of our resident orcas and even better when they were finding salmon, which Echo (J42) definitely did today! -Sara Hysong-Shimazi, Maya's Legacy WW
*
On this sunny Monday morning, members of the J16s were spotted in the north end of Haro Strait coming down from the north. By the time we got on scene with them they were
south of Lime Kiln State Park (about
1:30pm)
. We first encountered
J26
foraging by himself a ways off shore and stayed with him for a bit as he circled the area, going on long dives, looking for salmon. We next headed a inshore where we spent some time viewing J16 and two of her daughters,
J42 and J50
, who were traveling and foraging together. (We never encountered J16s eldest daughter J36 and J36's son J52 who off on their own foraging)
J16, J42, & J50
were making many directional changes foraging while in general making their way south. We started to leave the scene when suddenly they got on a salmon and there was a burst of activity. It was really cool to watch the chase play out and heartwarming to see little J50 get spunky tail slapping and breaching on our way out. Also on this trip
we saw 2 humpbacks (one ID'd as Big Mama), a minke, Dall's porpoise
all within a couple of miles along the coast. Down at Whale Rocks we encounter
dozens of sea lions
(mostly Steller but some CA), Harbor seals, dozens of bald eagles, and many other sea birds. A gorgeous day. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
..."Orcinus" found
the J36s inshore right off Edwards Point at 1330. J36 and J52
were foraging separately at first but then they moved a small ways offshore and began chasing a fish together. They milled around for a few minutes before charging back inshore side by side toward Edwards Point and Dave ended the encounter there at 1338. -Dave Ellifrit, CWR
Excerpt from Center for Whale Research Encounter 27
*

7:17 p.m. - Puget Sound J17s & L87
- got to see them twice today....Just returned from
Elliot Bay
...Odd behavior and lone whale at times, way behind the others. -Kerti Muel
*
What a gorgeous day to be on Puget Sound today! Took a cruise up north to Langley on Whibey Island (had lunch and watched
Grey and Humpback whales in Saratoga Passage
. On our way back south we heard that there were
Orcas West of Seattle
- we found one of the split-off groups in Elliott Bay.

5:00pm today - L87 Onyx in Elliott Bay
, with the Seattle Space Needle and part of the city in the background. Another great day in the Pacific Northwest! -Stu Davidson
*

4:43 p.m. - southern most pod
, from Stephanie Raymond watching from Duwamish: pod looked like they made a kill near N end of Myrtle Edwards Park, heading N towards Magnolia now.

4:28 p.m. - North Elliot Bay.
-Rufo HIll
*

4:16 p.m. -
Pretty sure I see
a couple of orcas in Elliott Bay
, viewing from a high floor condo. Almost in the ferry lane, Bainbridge ferry (The Wenatchee) is heading in now. -Donita Gier
*

4:00 p.m. - Orcas in Elliot Bay
headed towards Seattle waterfront. -Daniel Lipinski
*

3:50 p.m. -
We just got a phone call from a reader who says he's watching them from Don Armeni Boat Ramp. (
east side Alki
, West Seattle). -Tracy Record, West Seattle Blog
*

1:38 p.m. - Pod of orcas north bound off of Alki east side
. -Ryan Johnson
*

12:18 p.m. - Orca(s) playing south of ferry lane
just now, about half way across between Fauntleroy and Vashon. The boat was treated to a breach and several dorsal fins. -Kathleen Barry Johnson
*
Just returned home from watching at Mee Kwa Mooks, saw
at least 6 with very large Bull in the lead
. Long down times. Last saw
passing Vashon ferry terminal heading south
. Did not see again after
9:00 am. THey were very
close to Vashon side (east side)
. I was in west seattle looking west to east side of vahson. Last I saw they were heading south at a fast clip. Very long down times, may have made a kill. Last sighting was as they passed the vashon ferry terminal heading south. Very far west.

8:45 was about the end of it.
They must have made a kill. they were down for a long time! -Kersti Muul
*
Coastal J19s - Out at Cape Flattery today (4/3/17) saw 3 gray whales near Tatoosh Island
one looked like a cow/calf pair by the size of the blows together..
around 2 pm a group of outbound orcas showed up looked like 3 together with 2 trailing
.. at first i thought they were transients but when i got home even though the pics were distant i could see an open saddle on one...they headed SW and passed behind Tatoosh Island and i never was able to reacquire them. -Alethea Leddy
While the
J16s were in Haro, and the J17s w/L87 were in Puget Sound
...it appears the
J19s were on the Pacific coast
. -Alethea Leddy,

Entry 4:
(
"Looks like J19" - Ken Balcomb, Center for Whale Research
)
*

7:39 p.m. - Still there.

7:30 p.m. - remain stalled and feeding just north of the Edmonds Kingston ferry
. Lots of milling about tail lobs and breaching. Kingston side mid of mid channel.

6:48 p.m. - Have stalled out - same line of sight Apple Tree Point
to oil farm - Seem to be surfacing, feeding activity.

6:40 p.m. - I see them mid channel, north bound. Line of sight Apple Tree Point
to the oil farm. (Woodway) -Sara Frey
*

7:20 p.m. -
Just leaving them. They are NB. about 2 mi north of Kingston proper. LOOONG downtimes.
Kingston side
. Probably admiralty bound tonight?

6:40 p.m. - Too early to tell. (which side of Whidbey) Orcas passing Kingston
now. Midchannel.
1840

6:23 p.m. -
Just found them. Just south of Kingston Edmonds run. Mid channel. Heading NNE.
1823
. -Ariel Yseth
*

6:03 p.m. - now well past Ferry lanes still charging North towards Eglon.

5:41p.m. -
I see orcas near Kitsap side across from Carkeek, approaching ferry lane. (Kingston/Edmonds). -Steve Smith
*

6:02 p.m. -
Just went by us near the ferry route but somewhat evasive and really moving quick. (from a boat mid channel).

5:58 p.m. - huge fins, probably 4-6
, just passed our boat and probably close to ferry runs now, moving very fast mid channel.

5:41 p.m. - They're mid channel flying up north
...Edmonds/Kingston in 10-15 minutes? -Samuel Hilbert
*

5:14 p.m. -
This is the NORTHERN pod, not the ones that were reported in Elliott bay.

4:45 p.m - almost to the Bainbridge Spit
whatever it's called. Yes, headed north. Looking for the other pod now. I'm very near Ray's Boathouse.

4:30 p.m. - Ok I've got them,
4:30 west visible from Fay Bainbridge
. west of mid channel. Small boat following. -Sandra Prow
*

4:18 p.m. -
watching a pod of orca northbound just west of
mid-channel north of West Point Light house
. (This sounds like it is the most north group.- Danielle Pennington). -Connie Bickerton
*
Transients were sneaking thru Rich Passage @ Manchester
today after they played around at Dyes Inlet in Port Orchard. -Noelle Morris
*

2:49 p.m. - whales appear to have stalled between Bainbridge and Blake Islands.

2:37 p.m. - pod has exited Rich Passage
still headed east.

2:24 p.m.- Research boat off Fort Ward fish pens. Still heading towards the sound.

1:50 p.m. - Orca entering Rich Passage Southbound
. Researchers with them. -Connie Bickerton (
T65A, T65A2, T65A3, T65B, T65B1
)
*

2:45 - SE of Bainbridge Is.; Heading north
. -Don Van Doornik
*

2:20 p.m. - Bremerton pod passed Bainbridge fish farm
heading south. (Fish Pens are at Fort Ward). -Sue Surowiec Larkin
*

2:07 p.m. - Off Pt.White headed out of Rich Passage
. -Phyllis Macy Putnam
*

1:39 p.m. - I just saw them in Manette Bremerton
. They got spooked by the ferry and they were sort of headed out towards Port Orchard. -Katie McClelland
*
Per Kitsap Sun Page, at about

12:50 they were at Lions Park headed out of Dyes Inlet
. -Connie Bickerton
*

12:38 p.m. -
Was watching from Old Town Silverdale they were pretty far off and seemed to be heading back out of
Dyes Inlet
when I left them 5 mins ago , but who knows they might turn around. -Amy Schierhoff
*
Noon - Transients cruising the Traceyton area of Bremerton
. -James Wrataric,

Entry 5:
(
ID notes: "That's T65A2 in the lead", Sara Hysong-Shimazu
)
*
This was at my house on
Tracyton Beach RD where I live about
11:00AM
this morning. -Melinda Duryea,

Entry 6:
*
Chris Dunagan called to say the
Ts went past Evergreen Park toward Dyes Inlet at
10:30
. See Kitsap Sun photo gallery HERE.
*

8:50 a.m. -
report and photos sent to me from a friend on
Crystal Springs, Bainbridge Island. She counted 4 orcas off CP
. Hunting like behavior, now slowly headed north. (Crystal Springs is just north of Point White, on Port Orchard Pass). -Susan Marie Andersson
*

8:50 am Orcas near Point White Pier, Bainbridge Island
. -Joanne Schoener Scott
*

8:02 a.m. - Six Orcas spotted this morning on the Bremerton -to-Seattle ferry route
. Four were in Rich Passage headed toward Bremerton and two were in the main channel of Puget Sound! The two were headed toward Rich Passage as we had just exited there. The captain said they were adult males and they did appear much larger than the four we had seen ten minutes earlier in the Passage. My first whale experience!!! I'm in awe. -Rachel Pfeiffer Hayden
*

7:40 a.m. - Small Pod (I counted 4 or 5) of orcas in ferry lane between Bremerton and Bainbridge Island
just now, headed inward West towards Bremerton. Long dives and traveling quietly and quickly. Transients? -Yvonne Wachutka Lunceford
*

7:29 a.m. - Orcas seen from the Vashon to Seattle
water taxi heading west.. we are over half way to Seattle on our route.. one or two, maybe more.. the captain probably got a better look! Best way to start a Monday!! They were north of the water taxi lanes, not too far. I'm bad at distance. Not close enough to get a good photo with a phone but close enough to clearly see them coming out of the water for breathing!! They were definitely south of say Magnolia (if magnolia stuck that far out) hope that helps.
Swimming west toward Bainbridge or Bremerton
. Hopefully we will all see them on our commute home. -Molly Jordan
*

7:25 a.m. -
On the ferry f
r Bremerton to Seattle we encountered more than 3 orcas heading towards Bremerton
, at the green channel marker or so. I saw the first group/pod of 3 whales, others saw more of the group/pod a few minutes later. Sighting time approximate. Orca traveling. -Mary Klein
*

3:00 p.m. - Unidentified killer whales - Orca sighting on south side of Sucia island near Fossel Bay
saw 3 (one male and a mom and her calf) just cruising. Male stayed while mom and calf cruised into second finger and going into Echo Bay then out. Traveling. -Tom Stanton
*

Entry 7:
Grays 21, 49, 53, 383 plus 2, and a humpback. I watched them from Fox Spit out in front of Bells Beach
as they traveled northwest towards and past Fox Spit to Baby Island from
6 pm to
7:30 pm
as they turned back east again. Thanks Alisa and Jill for ID's on #53 and #383. -Marilyn Armbruster
*

5:57 p.m. -
Currently watching at least
2 grays mid channel
heading south. They're
between Fox Spit and Baby Island
Heights. From Camano Island State Park. -Shelly Greybeck
*

5:56 p.m. - A couple of greys in Saratoga Passage east of Sandy Point
. -Lisa Callen Farrell
*

5:25p.m. -
I should clarify, it's blows from
3-4 separate whales
. Saw some heart-shaped blows, so probably grays. I'm now at
mabana
but hard to see as they are directly in sun glare.

4:35 p.m. - 3-4 blows midchannel between Fox Spit and Elger Bay
area. Too far to ID or get direction yet. -Krista Paulino
*

12:20 p.m. - Not quite to Mabana Shores, Camano Side
. My vantage point from Fox Spit. Definitely heading southeast.
Noon - 2 grays in south Elger Bay
, Camano Island, no direction discernible. -Marilyn Armbruster
*
Whales at our doorstep! We left the dock on a beautiful sunny day - with reports of
SIX gray whales just north of Langley
we headed northeast and found three sets of two whales, feeding along the Camano shore and also mid channel - it seemed like we had whales in every direction!
#53 "Little Patch", #21 "Shackleton", and #383
were easily ID'd. We spotted harbor porpoise to the north and acting on Captain Eric's hunch, headed that way and found
a HUMPBACK whale
, what an amazing treat! He breached right in front of us (see video on Mystic Sea's facebook page). We had to head home, but were escorted part of the way by more gray whales. W.O.W.What a day! -Jill Hein, volunteer naturalist.
*

10:55 a.m. -
Chilkat Express with
6 gray whales just off of Fox Spit
. -Wendi Robinson
*
Watched
3 diff grays from Fox Spit
nearer Camano side spreadout
from Elger Bay to Mabana Shores (

8:30-
9:00)
...a calm and beautiful morning. at least a dozen porpoise and a few sea lions and seals rounding Fox Spit. -Marilyn Armbruster
*

8:33 a.m. - The two greys are still moving very slowly towards Polnell Point/Crescent Harbor.
...just went by my house now. -Marcie Barney Goldberg
*

7:15 a.m. - 2 or 3 Grays very close to shore in Saratoga passage between Bells Beach and Fox Spit
feeding on this beautiful Monday morning while a lucky kayaker quietly floats nearby. -Kristin Carlson
*

7:00 a.m. - Grey Whale Sighting:
Two adults feeding only 1/4 mile off the entrance to
Mariners Cove on Saratoga Passage at the entrance to Crescent Harbor/Oak Harbor!
First sited 0645 and are still here at 0715. Appear to be heading north. Feeding, slowly traveling. -Robert Hood
*
Around

2:30p.m.
- As we were heading south after watching J17s, 2 humpbacks and some Dall's off the west side...Sara Hysong-Shimazu spotted
a minke whale maybe a couple miles offshore out from the False Bay/Eagle Point
area. We hung out for a few minutes, I saw a whale surface once (which probably was the minke) but it never surfaced again, so off we went... -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*
Around

2:15 p.m. -
We encountered
a nice pod of Dall's porpoise in Haro Strait
off shore around the False Bay area on the west side of San Juan Island. They appeared to be actively feeding. One individual started to engage out bow, darted over but then cruised right back over and joined up with her/his pod. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network

