Orca Sightings for August 31, 2017
============================================================

Entry 1:
This
pod of orcas
was spotted Thursday
August 31 at about

8:15 AM headed South about 1/4 mile south of Brace Point, West Seattle
. -Video by Richard Lunt,

Entry 2:
(
Included in our previous Whale Report as
T65As, T124A1 & T124D
- ALB
) Bigg's/Transient killer whales - South Puget Sound - Beautiful
15 year-old T137A...past Steilacom and to Nisqually Reach
. They headed west passing Anderson Island. They were frantically active. Lots of breaching. Head stands. Tail slaps. Tail waves. Porpoising all over the place! Then they would go silent and take long dives. Such a gift to see them." -Photo by Kim Merriman,

Entry 3:
T100s
. We found them again (after cruising Deception Pass) an hour later in the exact same spot but heading south in a resting line. (
just north of Onamac
, Camano Island). -Justine Buckmaster
*

5:32 p.m. - In Saratoga Passage
, 1 nautical mile west of Rocky Point.
Four Orcas milling about. One big male, two females and a juvenile.
Seagulls were enjoying salmon scraps floating in the water... (probably seal scraps). -Gail Greenwald
*

4:23 p.m. -
Chilkat Express is on scene (with T100s) just north of Onamac Point north bound closer to the Camano side but in line with the entrance of Penn Cove. Justine Buckmaster
*

3:55 p.m. -
straight
across from Onamac on Camano
, but on whidbey side! Could see large male and female with little one! -Desi Tracy
*

3:05 p.m. -
Whales heading north fast
towards Hidden Beach.
Probably more on Whidbey side. -Sandra Pollard
*

3:00 p.m. - Pod has exited Holmes Harbor
, and just
passed beautiful Baby Island
(which is teeming with seals and birds) and are continuing northbound up Saratoga. Female and calf in lead, male and juvie trailing short distance behind. Beautiful!

2:35 p.m. -
pod definitely hunting on
north side of Beverly Beach
. A lot of surface activity in little bay between Beverly Beach and Saratoga Beach Community. Awesome! They are now steady northbound.

2:00 p.m. -
we watched them move south out from Dines point where they then flipped, stalled and look to be on the hunt. We are moving back to east side of the harbor in hope to relocate them on that side. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

1:27 p.m. -
These appear to be the
T100s. Southbound still Dines Point
. -Trevor Tillman
*

1:20 p.m. -
Saratoga pod booked it and has gone
into Holmes Harbor
. Steady southbound mid channel south of Greenbank north of Dines point. Bigg's/Transients -
T100s
actively pursuing someone in
Holmes Harbor
, Whidbey Island.

12:48 p.m. -
the pod has flipped now angling NW directionally
toward Baby Island/Holmes Harbor
.

12:25 p.m. -
The pod of 4? Including adult male grouped, steady
southbound more Camano side just south of Cama Beach
now. -Alisa Lemire Brooks, Orca Network
*

11:50 a.m. - Orcas in Saratoga Passage!
Marilyn Armbruster spotted orcas in Saratoga still
north Cama Beach State Park
but south of Onamac Point, Camano Island...they are mid channel. We are watching from Baby Island Heights area they appear to be heading South, maybe angling towards Camano Island side.
*

Entry 4:
T109A
- WOW! 5 minutes from our docks (
Sooke
) we were the first to find Transient / Biggs Killer Whales the T109a's (I think) Hunting and feasting on seals. Than we visited
3 Humpback whales
that were minutes away, than
a Gray Whale
and numerous Sea Lions and our local Sea Otter...-Photo by Paul Pudwell,

Entry 5:
T137s in Case Inlet this evening
, just south of Herron Island around
7:30 pm, heading north toward Stretch Island at a steady pace. I counted
at least 6
. Dive times of 2-3 minutes with shorter surface intervals. Fair number of harbor seals and harbor porpoise in the area, just sort of watching them pass by; didn't totally clear out like they usually do when Orcas are present. -Dave Berliner
*

6:50 p.m. -
There's
a pod of orcas going through Draytons Passage towards Vaughn
, Wa just now! -Amanda Olmos
*

6:30 p.m. -
The South Sound orcas headed
south past Steilacom and to Nisqually Reach
. They headed west passing Anderson Island. They were VERY active at times. And then they would dive for long down times. Very little boat traffic and very calm waters. There was a fire boat on the water as well. It was stopped, as were we. All of a sudden we could see the whales travel across in front of the fire boat and then they started to vocalize - under and above water. At one point, one of the whale actually nudged in between the hull of the catamaran fire vessel and CONTINUED TO VOCALIZE! It sounded like an above water hydrophone. Fabulous. When we last saw them they were
traveling west into Case Inlet
. They were frantically active. Lots of breaching. Head stands. Tail slaps. Tail waves. Porpoising all over the place! Then they would go silent and take long dives. Such a gift to see them.
T137 and T137D. T137A, T137B, and what looks to be T37A1.
-Kim Merriman
(
IDs by Melisa Pinnow, Center for Whale Research
)
*

2:39 p.m. - 3 orcas heading south by Steilacoom
right now! -Lisa Wiksten
*

2:18 p.m. - At least 2 Orcas heading south past Fox Island
. -Anita French
*

2:00 p.m. -
Report that
roughly 6 are southbound in the Narrows approaching the bridge
.

1:00 p.m. -
Tacoma PD patrol boat reports o
rcas northbound toward Point Defiance from Owens Beach
. 3 or 4 with a calf. -Durand Dace
*

12:27 p.m. - Orcas (at least 4) off Ruston Way, Tacoma
just north of CI Shenanigan's. This pod appeared while I was running on the path. About 20 minutes earlier I had seen
at least 3 dolphins traveling north at Point Ruston
but didn't get any photos. The
dolphins passed by very quickly
so I didn't see their faces, just the dorsal fins. I got a 2 minute video of the orcas which I will email you separately, as it would take a long time to upload here. -Leah Collister
*
Orca in Commencement Bay, downtown Tacoma. Closer to about

12:00
as it took me a bit to get back to my boat farther down the dock. Trying to put this in the time line. Spoted
a large male Orca broaching about 100 feet south of Marina at Browns Point
, just off the old floats breakwater where hundreds of harbor seals hang out. Seals went nuts and headed for the inner marina area. Saw several other Orcas out in the bay. -Norval Cunningham
*
I saw them off the
ferry dock (south Vashon) this morning
. There were
at least 4 orcas
, a rather small one with them. I took a bunch of photos, but won't be able to post them until Sunday evening. -Sandra Newby
*

Entry 6:
7:30 p.m. - 2 or 3 orcas traveling west about 100 yards off the south coast of Kingston
. Traveled east past Jefferson Beach, then stayed in one area for a while. Various boats, including the Victoria Skipper, stopped to watch. -Gary Mager
*

7:30 p.m. - At least 6, maybe even 8, just off Point Jefferson, Kingston
. Looks like they came from the Port Madison area and as they went by here they headed to the middle of channel. Looked like they were going to be northbound then they turned and milled around for a bit. May have been feeding. -Chris Beamer Otterson
*

7:11 p.m. - Spotted 6 Orcas headed north thru Agate Pass
. -Michelle Randall
*
Yes! We saw them traveling from
Manzanita along Sandy Hook
. They stayed for a bit in front of the casino and recently
went through Agate Passage
. It was incredible. We first saw them at a distance just south of Keyport
at roughly
6:00 p.m
. They traveled north along Sandy Hook and probably went under the
Agate Pass Bridge around
6:45 p.m
. Times are approximate, as we were so enthralled and in the moment that we weren't paying attention to anything but them. -Joni Derifield
*

4:40 p.m. -
Abby Love reports watching
a pod of orcas in Rich Passage after having watched them pass Manchester Park
. They are heading westbound through the passage. She counted at least 7 and one was noticeably smaller then the others. Too far for ID's.
*

4:40 p.m.
- They've' moved north towards Manchester on the Peninsula side. Just received a note from my parents who are on a state park buoy at
Blake Island. At about
4:15 they watched a group of 5-6 orcas eating a seal
. The group was mid-channel on the west side of Blake Island. They've since moved a bit north towards Manzanita, however they are still in the area and quite active. -Collin Long
*
1300 - 7 or 8 orcas northbound at north end Colvos passage
at 1300 on 8.31.17. We are just
1 mile south of the north end Vashon on the Kitsap
side near Southworth/Fauntleroy ferry dock. The shots from my Iphone aren't as crisp as I had hoped, but we did observe one juvenile and at least one large male with several adult females. My dog Moby was so excited he announced their arrival to us then started swimming out to great them.
T65As plus (ID'd earlier) exiting Colvos Passage.
Northeast end of Vashon. -Cheers, Tim Ferris
*
Saw
6 or 7 orca near shore Fragaria. Hunting then eating harbor seals, at least 2,
in water around their lounging rock. Just before high tide. One harbor porpoise, acting injured or exhausted, came close to shore in front of house nearly beaching itself in shallow water. Possibly chased by orca and escaped? I have more photos but can only attach one to this report. All are pixelated due to iPad optics at distance of approx 200 yards. 47.4617 N, 122.5314 W. -Kyle Kennedy
*

12:45 p.m. -
Chilkat Leaving them heading
northbound at Olalla
8knts.

11:57 a.m. - all groups heading north into Colvos passage
.

11:31 a.m. - Now with T65As just west of Tacoma
. Arrived to them making a kill and it was short lived. They're moving west toward another group.

11:08 a.m. - Humpback in Poverty Bay (Redondo Beach, Des Moines)
heading towards Redondo. We also just spotted those KWs to the south! -Renee Beitzel
(
Photos sent to Melisa Pinnow, Center for Whale Research, confirmed T124A1 and T124D as the 2 others who were with the T65As in Colvos Passage - ALB
)
*

12:57 p.m. - Pod of about 5 orcas
spotted RIGHT off of Point Ruston! Basically on the shore! -Jen Ferrell
*
Still in area. Passed
at least 3 about
11:30am heading south towards Point Defiance
. We were heading from Gig Harbor to Des Moines. -Karen Doherty Cameron
*

11:00 a.m. - Two orcas headed south Vashon/Maury island
. Just spotted two orcas swimming in tandem south towards Tacoma off of Vashon, between Maury Island/Shore Acres and Dash Point. Moving at a good speed. -Mark Shortliffe
*

9:19 a.m. - Orcas off Three Tree Point (
south side) saw a couple large dorsal before they hid in the fog, now can hear them but can't tell direction of travel or just milling...cmon fog go away!! -Kim Rouse Baumgartner
*
My husband just texted @

7:22am that there are orcas on the Seattle/Vashon Passenger only boat run
. The captain came over the loud speaker and stopped moving for 5 minutes. -Kelly Burns Keenan
*
Saw
a lone orca, maybe more, around Alki 0630 from the MV Kaleetan on the way to Bremerton
. It's foggy out so I thought I'd say something. -Regards WSF employee, Jeremy James
*
Humpback whales -

Entry 7:
Sooke
) we were the first to find
Transient / Biggs Killer Whales
the T109a's (I think) Hunting and feasting on seals. Then we visited
3 Humpback whales MMY0024 and BCYUnknown "Scratchy" off Sooke
that were minutes away, then
a Gray Whale
and numerouse Sea Lions and our local Sea Otter...-Paul Pudwell
*

Entry 8:
19:40 - Whale West side of Blake Island
headed North towards Rich Passage. Species not known, possible Humpback. -Paul Lee
*

6:50 p.m. - Single Humpback between Redondo and Point Robinson
. Heading Southwest towards dash point. -Jacob Tyler
*
1840 hrs -
What a day. Had
pod of orcas
just a few hours ago. Now
a Humpback about 1 mile south of Fauntleroy ferry
heading north close to Kitsap side. -Photo by Tim Ferris,

Entry 9:
*

2:35 p.m. - Looks like another humpback at Point Defiance
. -Andew Potter Maul
*

2:11 p.m. - A humpback just surfaced off of Ruston Point
, Tacoma in front of the pizza place going east. -Rona Walters
*

11:41 a.m. -Heading past the Vashon ferry terminal now toward Gig Harbor-ish
.

11:08 Humpback in Poverty Bay
(Redondo Beach, Des Moines) heading towards Redondo...Milling. Super lazy. Never saw flukes and longish down times. -Renee Beitzel
*

Entry 10:
Kalaloch right now and there are a number of gray whales
hanging out just off shore. -Photo by Peter Jancola,

